---
reviewed: 2025-11-12 08:47:33
title: Late payments
naviTitle: Late payments
navigation.excerpt: When payments bounce
figure:
  emoji: ⏰
  text: When payments bounce.
  color: rgb(220, 38, 38)
  textColor: rgba(255, 170, 170, 1)
lead: "Sometimes payments don't go through. That happens. We understand it. Don't panic, but take care. This article guides you through the steps."
---

## Why payments bounce

There are various reasons why payments bounce:

- Insufficient funds - we will try to debit again after a few days
- Expired credit cards - [Update your payment method](/1.platform/10.objects/09.payment-method.md#changing-payment-credentials)
- Something else - [Update your payment method](/1.platform/10.objects/09.payment-method.md#changing-payment-credentials)

Please contact us if you are aware about open invoices with us and or if you have questions about an invoice. In any case, we will inform you by by e-mail about failed payments.

## Automatic retries

Over the course of the month we will retry to previously failed payments. This helps to resolve half on initial bounces.

## Service cancellation

At some point, after several unsuccessful attempts to charge the payment credentials on file, apps will be deleted. **Deleted apps can not be recovered.** Read why we do this in a [story from our blog](https://blog.fortrabbit.com/bounced-payment). Deleting apps for bounced payments is carefully considered with human review on a per customer basis.

## App deletion policy

If there are 3 consecutive unpaid invoices with no response, apps will be deleted.

- **New clients:** If the first or second invoice bounces and there is no response to our emails, apps will be deleted.
- **Clients with fewer than 6 invoices:** If an account has fewer than 6 invoices, or if the credit card processor flags potential fraud or the account appears suspicious, apps may be deleted.
- **Long-term clients** with more than 6 paid invoices: If there are at least 2 consecutive bounced invoices or a total of 4 unpaid invoices, we will attempt personal contact in addition to automated emails. If there is no response, apps may be deleted.
- **High-value invoices**: For clients with invoices exceeding €1k MRR, different rules may apply.

## Paying open invoices

Open invoices can be found in the Dashboard. Login to our Dashboard &gt; follow the instructions in the "open invoices" warning. Credit card payments are done immediately. SEPA direct payments are delayed. If your credit card has insufficient funds at the time of charging, we may try to charge it again during the month.

## Refund policy

**We do not offer refunds** due to the complexities involved with our custom billing system and German accounting regulations. Issuing refunds would require generating negative invoices and additional manual bookkeeping steps.

If you believe there is an error in your invoice, please contact our support team. We may offer credits towards future invoices as a gesture of goodwill.

Please note that all booked apps and environments utilize hardware resources regardless of visitor traffic or usage patterns.

## Additional fees for bounced payments

Please note that our bank collects fees for failed charges or insufficient funds. We may pass those fees to you. Currently we usually don't.
