---
title:     SSH key setup
naviTitle: SSH keys
excerpt:   Set up SSH keys on your local machine
lead:      Learn about SSH keys and how to create an SSH key pair on your local machine and how to add it your fortrabbit account.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'ssh key, public key, git, ssh, Putty, PuttyGen, CygWin, Windows, Git Bash, RSA keys, DSA, RSA2, RSA1, SSH-2 RSA, OpenSSH, secure shell'
---

## Do you already have a SSH key?

To see any existing keys, open a terminal to list the `~/.ssh` folder:

```shell
$ find ~/.ssh
#/…/.ssh/config
#/…/.ssh/id_ed25519      ← private key part
#/…/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub  ← public key part
#/…/.ssh/known_hosts
```

Proceed to the next section if you don't have any key pairs or get an error about a missing folder. If you do see key pairs like above, then you can [upload the public SSH key](#importing-ssh-keys-to-fortrabbit) to your fortrabbit account.

## Generate a SSH key pair

```shell
# NOTE: me@fortrabbit is just an identifier, use what suits you 
$ ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C me@fortrabbit
# Generating public/private ed25519 key pair.
# Enter file in which to save the key (/home/user/.ssh/id_ed25519):
# Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):
# Enter same passphrase again:
```

## Importing SSH keys to fortrabbit

After you have set up Git and created a key pair, the public part of the key must be imported in the fortrabbit dashboard. The navigation to the import form is not very complex:

* Dashboard > Your Account > Access methods > Add a new SSH key

<div markdown="1" data-user="known">
[Add a new SSH key for your Account](https://dashboard.fortrabbit.com/account/keys/new)
</div>

Make sure you paste the public part of the key and not the private part. It's also possible to import SSH keys from GitHub account into your fortrabbit account.

### Copy your public SSH key value

The value to paste into the text field can be read into the clipboard from a terminal. On Windows, just use notepad to open the `id_ed25519.pub` file and select all, then copy.

```shell
# macOS
$ pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

# Linux
$ xclip -i < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

## SSH keys generation on Windows

The procedure to create SSH keys is slightly different on macOS and Linux compared to Windows. There are different ways to set up and use Git with Windows and also different ways set up and store the keys. We recommend using the official installer from the Git website, together with Git Bash.

## fortrabbit specific concepts

### Account SSH keys

Remember, on fortrabbit an Account represents a person - see the [account help page](/account). Your Account on fortrabbit may store the public parts of several SSH keys. We recommend you use this method for authentication. Doing so allows you to push code, view logs, and connect to the MySQL database for all of your Apps. In addition, other users who have an Account on fortrabbit may collaborate on your Apps without the need to share passwords. Their SSH keys will then be allowed to deal with your App.

<!-- TODO: Do we have?

### App-only SSH keys

In certain scenarios, you may want to grant someone or something access to an App without creating a new Account. For these purposes, you can use App-only keys that are separate from any Account on fortrabbit. The App-only keys are managed via the Dashboard with the Apps. Adding and removing such keys follows the same concepts as described above. -->

## Troubleshooting SSH key access

Please see the dedicated [SSH troubleshoot guide](/ssh-key-troubleshooting).

## About SSH public key authentication

SSH key authentication is a more secure and convenient way to log in than using passwords. Instead of a short password, you use a virtually impossible to guess key file. The public part of the key is safe to share, while the private part should be kept secure. Once you import a public key into your account, it can be used to authenticate you. When you connect, the server will encrypt some secret using the public key. If you can decrypt the secret with the private key and send it back to the server, then the server knows that you can be trusted.
