---
reviewed: 2026-02-13
title: Symfony guide
naviTitle: Symfony
navigation.excerpt: Web framework and components library
lead: Symfony has been around for some while — but it doesn't look old. Install and tune Symfony on fortrabbit.
figure:
  icon: simple-icons:symfony
  hide: true
sidebar: symfony
---

## Get ready

You should have a [local PHP development environment](/4.integrations/01.local-development/01.intro.md) running on your local machine.

## Install Symfony locally

Follow the [official Symfony guides](https://symfony.com/doc/current/setup.html) to create a local installation of Symfony if you not already have one.

Symfony has good backward compatibility, usually not introducing break changes, this guide most likely works for older versions as well. This can be an existing project or a new one, see the [official download page](https://symfony.com/download) for instructions for your local Operating System.

Given that fortrabbit uses Apache as a web server, consider fetching the default `.htaccess` file for Symfony. This can easily be done through (confirm the installation of the flex recipe by pressing `y`):

```shell
composer require symfony/apache-pack
```

## Setup GitHub

**Optional but recommended**: To enable git deployments later on, init git and add GitHub as remote repo, either as a public or private.

- [Deployment intro](/1.platform/05.deployment/01.intro.md) - concepts on fortrabbit
- [Git intro](/3.dev/15.learn/git-intro.md) - new to Git?

## Create an app at fortrabbit

Create a new app in the fortrabbit dashboard. The wizard will guide you through the steps. You can connect the repo from GitHub.

:BlockLink{title="Create a new app" path="/new/app"}

## Root path

If you did not choose Symfony when creating the environment in the dashboard at first, please set the following: Go to the dashboard and set the [root path](/1.platform/06.settings/12.root-path.md) to 'public'.

:BlockLink{title="Change the root path for {{app-env-id}}" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/settings/rootpath"}

## ENV vars

Symfony [environments](https://symfony.com/doc/current/configuration.html#configuration-based-on-environment-variables) are controlled by the `APP_ENV` ENV var. You can even use ENV vars in the .yml configurations now. To get you started quickly, we provide you with the following ENV vars by default when you have chosen the Symfony from when creating the App:

```shell
APP_ENV=prod
APP_DEBUG=0
APP_SECRET=SECRET
DATABASE_URL=mysql:host=${FORTRABBIT_MYSQL_HOST};port=3306;dbname=${FORTRABBIT_MYSQL_DATABASE}
```

[ENV vars](/3.dev/19.env-vars/01.intro.md) can be changed with the dashboard. Modify `APP_DEBUG` or `APP_ENV` to change the behavior of your application.

:BlockLink{title="Edit ENV vars for {{app-env-id}}" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/env-vars/edit"}

## Git deployment

See the [GitHub app](/1.platform/05.deployment/02.github-app.md) guide on how to connect fortrabbit to your Git repo.

## MySQL

The database should be configured out of the box.

## Doctrine & symfony console

### Deployments through GitHub

The build and post-deploy commands should be detected by fortrabbit and provide sensible defaults.

Here is what we automatically set up for you:

- Build commands:

```
composer install --no-dev --prefer-dist --no-interaction --no-ansi --no-progress
```

We also add node dependencies installation and build if detected:

```
npm install
npm run build
```

- Post-deploy commands:

- 'php bin/console cache:clear'
- 'php bin/console assets:install public'
- 'php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate'

### Non-git deployment

You may want to run migrations and maybe load fixtures on the instance. You can login via [ssh](/1.platform/04.code-access/03.ssh.md) in to your environment, or instead just fire single commands like so:

```shell
# doctrine
$ ssh {{app-env-id}}@ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app 'php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate'
$ ssh {{app-env-id}}@ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app 'php bin/console doctrine:fixtures:load'

# cache clear
$ ssh {{app-env-id}}@ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app 'php bin/console cache:clear'
```

You can also add this migrate command to your `composer.json` to have it run automatically every time you push changes.

```json
"scripts": {
  "post-install-cmd": [
    "php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate --no-interaction",
  ],
}
```

With that in place, any time you deploy your code, database changes will be applied immediately. If no database changes are required, nothing happens, so it is safe to run all the time. Just make sure to test your upgrades and migrations locally first.

## Tailwind usage

Unfortunately [TailwindBundle](https://symfony.com/bundles/TailwindBundle/current/index.html) uses [Tailwind CLI](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/tailwind-cli) which is not currently compatible with our service.

You can instead use [Symfony Encore](https://symfony.com/doc/current/frontend/encore/installation.html) to install Tailwind.

```
composer require symfony/webpack-encore-bundle
npm install && npm install -D tailwindcss postcss postcss-loader autoprefixer @tailwindcss/postcss
```

Add this part in `webpack.config.js`:

```js
    // enable PostCSS loader
    .enablePostCssLoader()
```

Create the following `postcss.config.js` file in the root directory:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: {
    '@tailwindcss/postcss': {},
    autoprefixer: {},
  },
};
```

And finally add these lines to your `app.css` file:

```css
@import 'tailwindcss';
@source '../../templates';
```

Since we detect node configuration this should then be deployed without any change of your configuration.

## Symfony installer

The symfony docs suggest to download a Symfony installer CLI. You can not do that on the remote environment. Do that in your local development environment.

- [symfony.com/download](https://symfony.com/download)

## Logging

You can access all log files with the dashboard.

## Sending emails

You can not use [sendmail](/1.platform/03.concepts/09.limits.md#mailing) on fortrabbit but you can use the `Swiftmailer`. Symfony provides a Mailer component that makes things easy. To configure the way your emails are sent, mind setting a `MAILER_DSN` environment variable. More on this in the [official documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/mailer.html).
