---
reviewed: 2026-07-06
reviewer: fl
title: TYPO3 guide
naviTitle: TYPO3
navigation.excerpt: Web framework and components library
lead: TYPO3 is a flexible open-source CMS. Learn how to install, configure, and deploy TYPO3 applications on fortrabbit.
sidebar: typo3-cms
figure:
  icon: simple-icons:typo3
  hide: true
head:
  meta:
    - name: keywords
      content: 'TYPO3, CMS, deployment, PHP, MySQL, environment variables, fortrabbit'
---

## Get ready

We assume you've already created a new app and chose TYPO3 in the [software template](/1.platform/03.concepts/05.software-templates.md). If not: You can do so in the fortrabbit dashboard.

You should also have a [local PHP development environment](/4.integrations/01.local-development/01.intro.md) running on your local machine. TYPO3 has good backward compatibility, usually not introducing breaking changes. This guide most likely works for older versions as well.

We recommend following the [official TYPO3 install guides](https://docs.typo3.org/m/typo3/reference-coreapi/main/en-us/Administration/Installation/Install.html) to install TYPO3 locally first. You can start with [Composer](/3.dev/15.learn/02.composer.md) like so:

```shell
composer create-project typo3/cms-base-distribution example-project-directory "^13"
```

## Root path

If you have chosen TYPO3 when creating the environment in the dashboard at first, `public` was pre-selected as the root path. If you have a different root path, go to the dashboard and set the [root path](/1.platform/06.settings/12.root-path.md) to `public`.

:BlockLink{title="Change the root path for {{app-env-id}}" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/settings/rootpath"}

## MySQL

TYPO3 does not support ENV var based MySQL connection out of the box. We recommend to extend your TYPO3 installation to use ENV vars for database access. [ENV vars](/3.dev/19.env-vars/01.intro.md) can be changed with the dashboard.

:BlockLink{title="Edit ENV vars for {{app-env-id}}" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/env-vars/edit"}

The other solution is to run the web installer after the TYPO3 code base has been deployed. This will alter configuration files directly.

## Deployment

TYPO3 supports git-driven applications and Composer-driven workflows. You can deploy via GitHub. See the [GitHub app](/1.platform/05.deployment/02.github-app.md) guide on how to connect fortrabbit to your Git repo. Use ENV vars for database access when using Git deployment. SSH and SFTP are also available.
