---
reviewed: 2024-08-25 15:01:34
title: October CMS guide
naviTitle: October
navigation.excerpt: A self-hosted CMS based on Laravel
lead:
sidebar: october-cms
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'php, install, laravel'
---

## Get ready

Make sure to have a [local development environment](/3.dev/20.how-to/1.local-development.md) up and running. Use the detailed [official October install guide](https://docs.octobercms.com/3.x/setup/installation.html) as your guideline to install October CMS on your local machine first. October CMS is based on Laravel, please have a look at our [Laravel guides](/2.guides/2.laravel) as well.

### MySQL configuration

If you have chosen October or Laravel in the [software preset](/1.platform/03.concepts/05.software-templates.md) when creating your app, we will automatically populate the "right" environment variables for the MySQL connection. So **you don't need to set anything**! Just keep `config/database.php` as it is. The all CAPITAL configs in the `config/database.php` file will be replaced by the contents of the environment variables. For your local development setup you can populate the `.env` file with your local database credentials. See the [ENV var topic](/3.dev/19.env-vars/01.intro.md).

## User sessions

There are various session drivers available in Laravel: see a [full list here](https://laravel.com/docs/session#configuration). Read further to see which ones are most suitable for your App. Whichever driver you end up using, you will need to specify it in the environment variables. Add a new ENV var `SESSION_DRIVER` in the Dashboard and give it the appropriate value.

Since environments have persistent storage, you are able to use the default `file` driver for sessions. You can of course also use the other options specified in the [Laravel session docs](https://laravel.com/docs//session#configuration).

To use the `database` driver, follow these steps:

```shell
# Create a migration for the session table  - locally
$ php artisan session:table

# Apply the migration - locally
$ php artisan migrate

# Add, commit and push the migration file
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "session migration"
$ git push

# Run the migration on the App via SSH remote execution
$ ssh {{app-env-id}}@ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app php artisan migrate --force
```

## Sending mail

You can not use [sendmail](/1.platform/03.concepts/04.limits.md#mailing) on fortrabbit but Laravel provides an API over the popular SwiftMailer library. The mail configuration file is `app/config/mail.php`, and contains options allowing you to change your SMTP host, port, and credentials, as well as set a global form address for all messages delivered by the library.
