---
reviewed: 2025-04-09 17:27:47
title: Typo3 guide
naviTitle: Typo3
navigation.excerpt: Web framework and components library
lead: Typo3 has been around for some while. Here are some details running Typo3 on fortrabbit.
sidebar: typo3-cms
---

## Get ready

We assume you've already created a new app and chose Typo3 in the [software template](/1.platform/02.concepts/05.software-templates.md). If not: You can do so in the fortrabbit dashboard.

You should also have a [local PHP development environment](/3.dev/20.how-to/1.local-development.md) running on your local machine. Typo3 has good backward compatibility, usually not introducing break changes, this guide most likely works for older versions as well.

We recommend following the [official Typo3 install guides](https://docs.typo3.org/m/typo3/reference-coreapi/main/en-us/Administration/Installation/Install.html) to install Typo3 locally first. You can start with composer like so:

```shell
composer create-project typo3/cms-base-distribution example-project-directory "^13"
```

## Root path

If you have chosen Typo3 when creating the app environment in the dashboard at first, 'public' was pre-selected as the root path. If you have a different root path, go to the dashboard and set the [root path](/1.platform/02.concepts/12.root-path.md) to .

:BlockLink{title="Change the root path for {{app-env-id}}" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/settings/rootpath"}

## MySQL

Typo3 does not support ENV var based MySQL connection out of the box. We recommend to extend your Typo3 installation to use ENV vars for database access. [ENV vars](/3.dev/19.env-vars/1.intro.md/1.intro.md) can be changed with the dashboard.

:BlockLink{title="Edit ENV vars for {{app-env-id}}" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/env-vars/edit"}

The other solution is to run the web installer after the Typo3 code base has been deployed. This will alter configuration files directly.

## Deployment

Typo3 supports git driven applications and composer driven workflows. So you can deploy it via GitHub. See the [GitHub app](/3.dev/03.deployment/2.github-app.md) guide on how to connect fortrabbit to your Git repo. Do yourself a favor and use ENV vars for database access when using Git deployment. SSH and SFTP are also available.
