---
reviewed: 2024-06-17 12:39:20
title: Billing collaboration
naviTitle: Billing collaboration
navigation.excerpt: Sharing billing access with others
lead: Share access to billing with clients, the boss, the billing department and fellow founders.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'collaboration, beginner, platform, teamwork, sharing, permissions, roles, organization, access, multi-client capability, multi tenancy, tenant, client, employees, developer, collaborator, administrator, platform design'
---

```raw
┌───────────┐    ┌───────────┐
│   team    │    │  person   │
└─────┬─────┘    └─────┬─────┘
    access           access
┌─────▼────────────────▼────┐
│       payment method      │
└───┬─────────┬─────────┬───┘
   owns      owns     owns
┌───▼───┐ ┌───▼───┐ ┌───▼───┐
│  app  │ │  app  │ │  app  │
└───────┘ └───────┘ └───────┘
```

The above illustrates how teams and individuals can share access on a payment method, which owns the apps.

## Non technical client access

Most parts of the fortrabbit platform are very technical. Often the business owners are not developers. That's why there are two type of accounts with the fortrabbit dashboard: developer and clients. See [account types](/15.collaboration/6.account-types.md) for more.

## Direct billing access

People can be connected to payment methods directly. This includes developers, as well as clients. When a connection between a payment method and a person is established by invitation, the person can control the payment method and it's apps.

## Billing access with teams

Teams can also be connected to payment methods. In such cases the billing access is role based. All team members with unlimited team access have full access on the connected payment methods as well.

## Separation of concerns

Some of our agency and freelancer clients prefer to bill their clients a yearly maintenance fee for websites (retainer) which includes the fees for hosting. That's OK and you can continue doing that. But inviting clients to become fortrabbit themselves has some benefits:

Most importantly, responsibility gaps can be avoided. When end clients are becoming our clients are directly, we will have to deal with them. It includes an exist strategy for agencies and freelancers as well, they can simply leave the client apps alone.

We believe transparency is important for such business relations. So we don't offer a white label hosting solution or agency bonus programs.
