---
reviewed:      2022-03-21 20:55:47
title:         DNS advanced
naviTitle:     Advanced topics
excerpt:       Record types, wildcards, forwarding
lead:          "The world of DNS is one of its own. You want to do more than just the basics? Let's dive into it - understand the background, explore advanced and alternative settings."
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'TLD, Top Level Domain, top-level-domain, registration, ordering, zone apex, apex domain, root domain, subdomain, domain masking, domain name server, DNS, ns, lookup'
---

## Changing the default domain

Per default your App URL is the "default domain". You can change it so that links from the Dashboard and the thumbnail preview generation will use a custom domain of yours. We also use the default domain for various internal monitoring services.

To change the default domain: In the Dashboard go to your App > Domains. There click on the star icon beside the domain name in the list.

## Using HTTPS via Let's Encrypt

Domains on fortrabbit can be accessed via `HTTP` and `HTTPS`. Please see the [HTTPS article](/8.dns/tls-issues.md) for information on secured connections and SSL certificates.

## Setting a custom root path per domain

A root path is a folder in the [file system](/14.concepts/directories.md) of the [app environment](/13.objects/2.app-environment.md) where the domain will end. The root path is saved with the app environment for all it's domains.

## Multiple domains per app environment

There are some reasons why you might want to point more than one domain to your fortrabbit App:

## Multiple websites in your app environment

You probably want to host more than one website on your App like so:

1. `your-first-domain.com` resolves to `htdocs/your-first-domain/public`
2. `your-other-domain.com` resolves to `htdocs/your-other-domain/public`
3. …

We recommend not to do that, see our [one website per app article](//14.concepts/one-website-per-app.md).

## Forwarding domains

Let's say you have `your-domain.com` pointed to your app environment already. Now that other TLD, the domain `your-domain.co.uk` is registered as well. You want your app environment to show up under this domain as well. Now there are two main ways how this can be implemented:

1. `your-domain.co.uk/pricing` will forward to `your-domain.com/pricing`
2. `your-domain.co.uk/pricing` and `your-domain.com/pricing` will both show the same content

What you want, in most scenarios, is the first one: forwarding. Serving the same content under multiple domains is confusing — not only for humans but also for bots: The SEO spider bot might down-rank your content as a duplicate. You want a primary domain — one canonical name.

### Forwarding domains with your domain provider

You can forward one domain to another domain without any involvement of fortrabbit at all. Please check your domain provider to see if forwarding is allowed. The configuration should be dead simple. You point one domain to another and that's it.

* Do: forward using a HTTP `301 Moved Permanently` code.
* Don't: use a "masked forward" where the other domain is loaded into an iframe

Please keep an eye on HTTPS when forwarding. HTTPS will most likely not be provided by your domain provider. In most cases this is not issue.

### Forwarding domains within your app environment

You might also do the forwarding programmatically within your App. The most common approach here is to work with `.htaccess` rules to redirect all requests to that other domain. You register each domain within the fortrabbit Dashboard and then catch all the requests in the App. Here is an example, which always redirects to a domain `www.some-domain.tld`:

```plain
RewriteCond %{HTTP_HOST} !^www\.some-domain\.tld [NC]
RewriteRule (.*) https://www.some-domain.tld/$1 [R=301,L]
```

This example is generic. Please check your framework or CMS for plug-ins or configurations.

## Configuring your domain for e-mail

So far we have covered how to route a domain to fortrabbit. To receive and send e-mails from your domain you will configure the MX record of your domain. Please see your e-mail hosting provider for instructions.

## Choosing a domain provider

fortrabbit is not offering direct domain registration and management. In classical hosting, domain registration & e-mail hosting were bundled in packages. Today you can find specialized domain services. There are various offerings, so you should consider upfront what you'll need:

1. Additional IMAP/POP3 e-mail hosting
2. Additional SSL certificate ordering
3. Specialized in advanced DNS configurations
4. Exotic TLD-endings
5. General domain forwarding
6. Support for forwards with ALIAS or ANAME records

Many of our clients are using classical offerings combining domain ordering and e-mail hosting. Others are using separate services for domain registration and e-mail hosting.

## Using CloudFlare

Please see our [CloudFlare article](/13.integrations/cloudflare.md) on how to setup and use CloudFlare together with fortrabbit.

## Wildcard domains

Wildcard domains are currently not supported at fortrabbit. Please file a support ticket to describe your use case.
