---
reviewed: 2025-01-20 15:55:08
title: Early access program
naviTitle: Early access
navigation.excerpt: Private alpha access program en detail
lead: The new fortrabbit platform is in early stages. Adventurous developers are invited to test it out already.
figure:
  emoji: 🐤
  # emoji: 🦜
  color: rgb(222, 167, 1)
  text: New platform early access program details
  caption: Your chance to be a canary in a coal mine.
siblings: New platform
nextNav: true
---

## What to expect

Be among the first to experience our next-generation developer-friendly PHP hosting, featuring GitHub integration for automatic deployments and seamless multi-staging. Existing users may consult [changes](/0.new-platform/3.changes.md) to the current platform. We ask you to create [apps](/1.platform/10.objects/1.app.md) and [environments](/1.platform/10.objects/2.app-environment.md), book [components](/1.platform/11.concepts/components.md), [deploy](/3.dev/3.dev/2.deployment/) using the new [fortrabbit GitHub App](/3.dev/3.dev/2.deployment/2.github-app.md). Go ahead and break some things.

## Phases

We plan to gradually roll out the new platform during 2025. Exact timing to be defined and communicated.

| Phase          | SLA    | Pricing | Status         |
| -------------- | ------ | ------- | -------------- |
| Private alpha  | ~80%   | free    | **Now**        |
| Open beta      | ~98%   | paid    | Coming soonish |
| Public release | 99.99% | paid    | Future         |

### Private alpha

For a closed group of fools and family with limited functionality, free to use. Expect all kind of bugs. The platform may contain major bugs, making it unstable or unusable. It is certainly not suitable for production use. Use at your own risk, have backups. At this stage, there is no liability or warranty. Everything for free comes without a guarantee.

The platform is **free to use during the alpha phase**. Prices are displayed for reference and subject to change. Feedback on product structure and presentation is welcome.

New users are gradually onboarded to the alpha. If you are interested, please :ContactUs. Please include your use case and why you are interested.

During the alpha phase the following functionality will be missing:

- Collaboration features are not available
- Only one data center is available
- Metrics are not yet implemented
- Jobs (workers/corns) are not yet implemented
- Autoscaling is not available yet

### Open beta

More stable, mostly feature-complete and paid. Alpha testers will automatically transition to beta testers. The start of the beta phase will be announced upfront via email. From here on, expect decent uptime and stability. We keep the BETA label to harden the platform.

### Public release

The public release will follow the beta phase, with all initial features fully implemented and stable.

### Migration

The current platform will be maintained for another while, both platform will run side by side. We plan to help existing clients to migrate over to the new platform hands on. Details to be defined, but at best, we will be able to migrate most applications.

## Terms

The service is provided "as is" during this initial phase of real-world testing.

### Fair use

The service depends on finite resources shared amongst multiple customers. By using the alpha platform you agree not to use services excessively or unreasonably.

### Privacy

Final privacy notice for the new platform is outstanding. We aim to store as little as possible. In the meanwhile please resort to the current [privacy statement](https://www.fortrabbit.com/privacy) and associated privacy related policies.

## Feedback

We are curious what you think. Please :ContactUs to report bugs or share your ideas. Is something not working out? Is something missing? Is something confusing to you?
