---
reviewed: 2023-08-08 08:49:04
title:    The app environment object
naviTitle: Environment
excerpt:  An online version of your project
lead:     An online version of your website including a full runtime.
---

## Intro

While the Git repo is connected with the [app](/10.objects/1.app.md), the app environment can be mapped to a git branch. [Git deployment](/6.deployment/1.intro.md) is optional but blends in nicely.

- An environment is a sub object of an [app](/10.objects/1.app.md)
- Each app needs to have at least one environment
- Environments are managed in the [dashboard](/11.concepts/dashboard.md)
- Each environment is a separated hosting setup
- Each environment has individual settings
- Each environment has individually billed [components](/11.concepts/components.md)
- Create [multi staging workflows](/14.tips/multi-staging.md) with multiple app environments

## Wording

We usually use 'app environment', since this explicitly names the fortrabbit object and can not be confused with your development environment. Sometimes when the context allows only environment might be used.

In the dashboard, the environment title will constructed lie so: `{app name} / {environment id}`.

## Creating an app environment

While creating a new app you will also create an app environment along the way. You can also create new app environments for any of your apps later on.

:DashboardLink{title="Create an environment" path="/new/environment"}

## Deleting an app environment

To delete an app environment, visit the app environment in the dashboard, find and hit the "delete" button. You will need to confirm what you are about to do. The environment will then get deleted within a couple of minutes. The app environments and it's component will be billed until the day of deletion. Deletion is irreversible and includes all files and the database.

:DashboardLink{title="Delete an environment" path="/manage/delete-environment"}

## Dashboard settings

The dashboard exposes a variety of settings to manage and control the environment. The number of settings may depend on the booked components. Here is brief intro:

### Overview

- Preview image and link
- Connected domains
- Latest events
- Current costs
- Latest deployed commit
- Metric breakdown
- CRUD actions

### Domains

#### Set up a custom domain

You can register your app environment to accept requests from any external custom domain you route to fortrabbit — see also [the domain article](). To set up a domain routing, you add a new custom domain within your App's domain settings in the Dashboard.

#### Root path

Per default all the [domains](/domains) of the App will route to the same root path (sometimes this is also called: document root, docroot or root folder): `htdocs`. This path is where the first `index.php` will be called, when people are visiting your App on any domain. This path setting can vary, depending on what the framework or CMS you have selected in the software chooser when creating the app.

You can however set the root path afterwards at any given time by visiting the appropriate setting in the Dashboard under your App.

### Firewall

Most connections calls on most ports are forbidden for [security](security) reasons. You can request to white-list a port or port range. With the firewall setting of your App you can see custom white-listed ports and request a new firewall rule.

- [List of open ports](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs#firewall)

### Metrics

Each App comes with "**Usage metrics**": Those show you the current status of the Web storage, MySQL storage and Object Storage and context of your App.

Some Apps also come with "**Performance metrics**": Those show you how fast your App is and where you might need to improve. Performance metrics are: requests, PHP response time, traffic, errors and other useful stuff. You can set different time intervals to monitor performance over time.

#### Inviting a client to take over an App

Are you working on behalf of someone? You want your client or the boss of the agency to pay for hosting? Here you can start the invitation. See our [client collaboration](/client-collaboration) article for more details.

## Deleting an App

You can always delete Apps you own or administer. To delete an App, visit the App in the Dashboard, find and hit the "delete" button. You might need to enter your Account password and also confirm what you are about to do. The App will then get deleted within a couple of minutes. This includes all files and the database.

### Recovering deleted Apps

Deleting Apps & Accounts is "mostly" (see [below](#recovering-backups)) FINAL here and can't be reversed. We delete as much as possible when a client requests so or when we have to because payments have bounced too often. We do so for privacy and security reasons. We believe that it should be your right to be forgotten. Imagine that we take your data as a hostage until you pay us. So in most cases that's actually good. Also read [how we handle bounced payments](/bounced-payments).
