---
reviewed:  2023-08-04 07:03:38
title:     The team object
naviTitle: Team
excerpt:   Settings and options for developer groups
lead:      A group of developers collaborating on code and billing.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'beginner, platform, teamwork, sharing, roles, organization, access, tenant, client, employees'
---

## Get ready

Your [fortrabbit account](3.person.md) is your personal access. The [payment method](/10.objects/9.payment-method.md) represents the legal entity owning apps. The team object in the dashboard represents a group of developers collaborating on apps and payment methods. Check out the [collaboration section](/11.concepts/1.collaboration.md) for more.

## Creating a team

You can create as many teams as you want with the dashboard. Teams are free of charge. Here is the link to get started:

:DashboardLink{title="Create a team" path="/new/team"}

A team may represent your real live connections with other developers. It can map:

- A whole organization - your small agency, startup, association
- An organizational unit - a smaller group within a business, team tokio
- Any other kind of group of developers

A team needs to have at least one developer account attached. Although a one person team is not really a team.

## Inviting team members

You can invite more team member through the dashboard. Here is a link:

:DashboardLink{title="Invite a developer to a team" path="/manage/developer-team-invite"}

The invited person will receive an invite link that will need to be confirmed in a timely manner. Invited developers can either sign up to create an account or log in to an existing account to confirm the invitation.

## Access roles

Each team member needs to have an access role within a team. Access roles are role based permissions. The developer who created the team will become the first owner. For each invited developer an access role needs to be chosen. Access roles can be changed later on.

### Owner

Multiple owners per team are possible. Each team must have at least one owner.

- create, delete, configure & scale all apps with the tam
- access code of all apps of the team
- delete, create, change payment methods connected to the team
- manage all other member roles
- invite new member for any role to the team
- leave the team (if other owners are present)
- delete the team

### Admin

- delete, configure & scale chosen apps of the team
- create new apps on behalf of the team
- access code on chosen apps
- leave the team

## Payment method access

[Payment methods](/10.objects/9.payment-method.md) can be attached to teams. Teams can own apps via payment methods created by their owners. This also allows billing collaboration, when teams participate on payment methods by clients.

## Deleting a team

An owner can delete a team. Payment methods and apps that are only associated through this team will be deleted along the way. There is a warning screen when deleting the team, explaining what will happen and what not. Deleting a team will not cancel your personal account.

## Leaving a team

Everyone, except the last owner, can leave a team. In that case the team will stay, but you will loose access to it and it's objects. When you cancel your account and you are part of a team with other owners left, you will leave the team.

## Working with multiple teams

Just like in real life, you can create or join any number of teams with your account. So one account can be part  of multiple teams in different roles.

## Working with the same person in different teams

If you have multiple teams and you want to collaborate with same person on all or a subset of them: Just invite them to each team. The same person then will have access to all teams while logged in with their account.

## Changing the role of a team member

If you are owner, you can promote and demote other people like so: Visit the team the developer is part of, click on 'change role'. This will open a form in which you can change the role.

### When developers leave

The developer who leaves a team will loose the ability to see and edit the apps in the dashboard and also will loose all personal code access.

There are two directions of leaving a team:

#### Active: A developer leaves a team

You might want to leave the team when the project you have collaborated on has ended or you are actually leaving the team in real live as well.

1. In the dashboard go to "Teams" > {{ Team name }}
2. Click the "Leave" button

You can not leave a team when you are the last Owner remaining. A team must have at least one owner.

#### Passive: An owner revokes team access for a developer

Let's say a project phase has ended, so that developer does not need have access any more.

##### How to revoke developer access

1. In the Ddshboard > "teams" > {{ Team overview }} > Under Collaborators
2. Click the role of the Account you would like to remove.
3. This will bring up a form in which you can revoke access.
