---
reviewed: 2024-06-23 18:14:23
title: The payment method object
naviTitle: Payment method
navigation.excerpt: An object for billing and collaboration
lead: A payment method owns apps, receives invoices and is managed by people.

links:
  - title: Pricing
    excerpt: What to pay for
    route: /billing/pricing
  - title: Pro rated billing
    excerpt: First use, then pay
    route: /billing/pro-rated-billing
  - title: Invoice anatomy
    excerpt: How to read fortrabbit invoices
    route: /billing/invoice-anatomy
  - title: Late payments
    excerpt: What happens when payments bounce
    route: /billing/late-payments
  - title: Billing connection
    excerpt: Who can access a payment method
    route: /collaboration/billing-connection

head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'billing, payment, hosting, credit card, sepa, vat, invoice'
---

## Overview

- A payment method has: payment type, invoice address, VAT settings …
- Each app - except [during trial](/11.concepts/2.free-trial.md) - is owned by a payment method
- Payment methods can own multiple [apps](/10.objects/1.app.md)
- Payment methods are managed by people directly or in [teams](/10.objects/4.team.md)
- Each team or person can have access on multiple payment methods
- Each payment method has its own invoice archive
- Payment methods are free of charge, the apps they own [cost something](/15.billing/1.pricing.md)
- People are connected to payment methods by a [billing connection](/15.collaboration/5.billing-connection.md)

## Creating a payment method

When creating your first paid app up or upgrading a trial app, you will create a payment method on the fly and link that app to it. You can also create a payment method from scratch to be used later on.

:DashboardLink{ title="Create a new payment method" path="/new/payment-method" }

## Multiple payment methods

You may need one app to be paid by one credit card and another app to be paid by another credit card. The payment method is not a part of your account but an individual object. You can create multiple payment methods and assign apps to them.

## Shared payment methods

You may be collaborating with other, in a team or in a client relation. Payment methods can also be shared. You can [invite someone to collaborate or to take over a payment method](/14.tips/inviting-a-client.md).

## Changing the invoice address

Your invoices contain the street address of your payment method. You will be asked for that while setting up a payment method. You can change this invoice address for future invoices at any time in the dashboard.

## Changing payment credentials

You have a new credit card or the old one is about to expire? You can change the payment credentials of a payment credentials of the payment method in the dashboard. Changing the payment credentials will affect future payments and will also be used to balance possible open invoices. In order to change the payment method you will need to have a fortrabbit account with access to the payment method.

## Adding a VAT IN

It is recommended to add your VAT IN to your payment method when your organization is registered in the European Union. This can save you (and us) upfront value added taxes. Please see our [tax topic](/15.billing/6.vat.md).

We need to validate the VAT IN. So the number you enter needs to match the correct format. Please mind that your VAT IN is not the tax number. The correct number should start with your country code. Entering the VAT IN will change how VAT will be charged for future invoices, entering the VAT IN can not affect past invoices.

## Changing the payment method of an app

In case you want an app to be billed from another credit card or bank account but still want to keep the team of the app the same. Either replace the payment credentials (see here) or create a new payment method for that.

## Deleting a payment method

Deleting a payment method is similar to a [service cancellation](/14.tips/service-cancellation.md), since all the apps owned will be deleted as well and the invoice archive will be removed.

## Troubleshooting setup issues

From time to time clients report issues with setting up new payment methods. Here are some common issues:

- Debit cards might not be accepted, use a full blown credit card please
- Sadly credit cards from certain countries like Nigeria seem to have less acceptance
- We are debiting the card with a test transaction with a small amount - that's not a payment, you'll get it back right after
- EU clients might need to solve strong authentication (redirect to bank website)
- US and other countries might need to authorize the test debit, in some cases that means calling up the bank

We can do little about this. We pass your data directly to the payment gateway. Thanks for your understanding.
