---
reviewed: 2025-07-26 13:00:14
title: The fortrabbit GitHub App
naviTitle: GitHub App
navigation.excerpt: How to connect your repos for deployment
lead: Connect the most popular Git-as-a-service provider with your fortrabbit deployment workflow.
siblings: Deployment
links:
  - title: Deployment object
    route: /platform/objects/deployment
    property: docs
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'git-hub, integrations, gitlab, bitbucket, coding, CI/CD, cloud, vcs, add-on, version control'
---

## Get ready

- You are confident [using Git](/3.dev/15.learn/git-intro.md).
- You also have a good understanding of the fortrabbit [deployment options](/3.dev/03.deployment/01.intro.md).
- Finally, you have an account here at fortrabbit as well as with GitHub already.

## Installation

To connect GitHub with fortrabbit you need to install the fortrabbit GitHub App with your account at GitHub:

- [github.com/apps/fortrabbit](https://github.com/apps/fortrabbit)

You will be prompted to give it access on your repos as well as to create repos on your behalf. You will also need to choose which context at GitHub you will want to give it access.

## Connect, create or change a repo

The Git repo maps to the [app](/1.platform/10.objects/1.app.md) at fortrabbit. When creating an app you will be asked to either choose a repo from GitHub to be connected to the app or to create a new empty repo for the app. Later on you can change the repo of the app.

## Connect, create or change a branch

The Git branch maps to the [environment](/1.platform/10.objects/02.environment.md) at fortrabbit. You can create environments for your branches.

## Repos from organizations at GitHub

You can choose repositories from organizations on GitHub if you have any, and you have given the fortrabbit GitHub app access to them.

## Only matching fortrabbit accounts can deploy

Automatic deployment is limited to people who have an account at GitHub as well as on fortrabbit and the fortrabbit GitHub app installed. This is a security feature.

## GitHub Actions

GitHub is also offering [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions), an integrated continuous integration solution. You can use GitHub Actions in combination with our git deployment or with our [direct code access](/3.dev/01.code-access/1.intro.md) as an alternative workflow to deploy. GitHub Actions give you more control control over the deployment pipeline.

## Removing access

You can at any time uninstall the fortrabbit GitHub app from your GitHub account. This will break
deployments. When deleting an app from fortrabbit, the connection over at GitHub will also be removed. Cancelling fortrabbit services will not automatically uninstall the fortrabbit GitHub app.
