---
reviewed: 2024-12-11 18:18:27
title: Deployment strategy
navitTitle: Deployment strategy
navigation.excerpt: How files will be distributed into the environment
lead: This setting defines how the deployment result will be distributed to the web space of an environment.
siblings: Deployment
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'atomic, incremental, decremental, rsync'
---

The result of the changes received by git push and the build steps execution is called a deploy package - a temporary file set. This will be put into the storage of the environment somehow. You can change the deployment synchronization strategy setting with the dashboard. The strategy matches with the software and deployment flows to be used. With the [software template](/1.platform/03.concepts/05.software-templates.md) defaults for the deployment strategy are set.

## Merge strategy

The save strategy for deployment package synchronization is overwrite but not delete:

- Newer files will replace older files on the storage
- New files will be created on the storage
- **Files not present in the deploy package but on the storage will not be touched**

With this no runtime data, like uploads, transforms, caches template fragments and other content will get deleted. It however can result in some weird edge case side effects. When merge strategy is enabled, [patterns to replace](/1.platform/05.deployment/10.replace-patterns.md) certain files and folders can be defined.

## Replace strategy

Create an exact replica of the current deploy package within the web space. That means, all files in the web space will be deleted first and replaced by the contents of the deploy package. This is sometimes called an immutable deployment. It's related to 12-factor design and ephemeral storage where the web application should not write anything to disk. It allows to rollback to any previous state more easily. This may not play well with old school PHP based web applications.

In addition to the full replace strategy you can set certain [excluded files and folders](/1.platform/05.deployment/9.exclude-patterns.md) that will be sustained from replacement.
