---

reviewed:      2023-07-07 09:07:46
naviTitle:     App
title:         App
excerpt:       Grouping environments and collaboration
lead:          An app is an object in the fortrabbit dashboard. It’s the main starting object. It groups environments together and is the main subject of collaboration.

---

## The app concept

fortrabbit hosting has a multi-seat and multi-tenant model. Apps are owned by [payment methods](/payment-methods) (your business) and managed by [developers](/developers) (you).

## Apps and environments

Think about an app like a git repo. The app represents the actual repo. In fact you can link a Git repo to an app. An [environment](/environment) on the other side maps to a git branch.

### One website per app

With classical server hosting you rent out a machine to host multiple websites. While this seems to make economic sense — it's not smart. Just think about these scenarios:

* "website A" needs runtime version y, while "website B" requires version x
* "website C" has a nasty bug and crashes the whole server
* "website D" has a security vulnerability, the whole server gets hacked
* "website E" gets popular and receives lots of traffic, slowing other websites down
* Your fellow web developer colleague "accidentally" removed all files on the server

Apps are better:

* Apps start a fraction of a server but can be scaled across multiple servers
* Each app has its own settings
* Apps are isolated from each other

So, a fortrabbit app is designed to host one website:

* There is only one MySQL database per App
* Each App has only one Git repo
* Each App has its own collaboration rules
* Each App has its own performance metrics

## Creating an app

When you sign up to fortrabbit, a new [trial App](#the-app-trial) will be created on the fly. Later on you can create any number Apps in the Dashboard —  just find the accordingly named button. While creating an App, there are a few things to decide:

1. **App name**:
2. **Software preset:**
3. **Data center location:** Where will your App be hosted?
4. **Stack & scaling**

## Deleting an App

You can always delete Apps you own or administer. To delete an App, visit the App in the Dashboard, find and hit the "delete" button. You might need to enter your Account password and also confirm what you are about to do. The App will then get deleted within a couple of minutes. This includes all files and the database.

## Settings

### App name

The app name identifies your App. It is used in many instances. You will also find that App name on your invoices.

While creating the app you can choose a name that is easy for you to identify your project. The App Name must be URL friendly (lowercase, no special chars, no spaces).

#### Changing the app name

Please note, that it is not possible to change the app name later on for technical reasons — cool URLs don't change, anyways. This is not a bummer. Remember that the App Name is only an identifier to login and for development. If you are really desperate for your own vanity app name: delete your current app and start a new one, this time using the desired app name. Apps are designed to be disposable, so deploying everything again shouldn't take too long.

### App teams

The team settings of the App are showing you which other developers have access to the App. From here you can also invite new team members directly to the App.

See our [collaboration article](/collaboration) to learn more about joint development.

#### Changing collaboration

1. Go to the App in the Dashboard
2. Click the "Change ownership" button
3. Choose a different Company (and Billing Contact)

The `Change ownership` button, linked from your App overview is a very powerful tool. You can move the App to a different [Company](/company) or [Billing Contact](/billing-contact) you have access to. That means, you can assign the App to a different team, and/or to be billed from a different [Billing Contact](/billing-contact).

This action can only be done by [Accounts](/account) who have Owner or Admin privileges on at least two [Companies](/company) or one Company with two [Billing Contacts](/billing-contact). In other words, you need to have something first, to change it to. Also the App must be paid, not in trial mode.

The App will be billed on the old Billing Contact until that day of change and from the next day on to the new Billing Contact. For example: If you move your App on the 15th of a month to the Billing Contact of another Company, it will be billed to the old Billing Contact until the 15th and to the new Billing Contact starting from the 16th.

#### Inviting a client to take over an app

Are you working on behalf of someone? You want your client or the boss of the agency to pay for hosting? Here you can start the invitation. See our [collaboration](/collaboration) article for more details.
