---

reviewed:      2023-02-15 08:19:53
title:         Payment method
excerpt:       An object for billing and collaboration
lead:          This article explains what a payment method at fortrabbit is about.
status:        todo

keywords:
  - beginner
  - platform
  - teamwork
  - sharing
  - roles
  - organization
  - access
  - tenant
  - client
  - employees

---

A payment method represents the payment details which are used by fortrabbit to bill for apps usage.

Most people are happy with just one payment method, but in some cases you need one App to be paid by one credit card and another App to be paid by another credit card. payment methods allow just that. A payment method persists of:

* A [payment method](#toc-changing-the-payment-method), which can be credit card or SEPA direct debit (EU only)
* A [invoice address](#toc-changing-the-invoice-address), which will be written on the invoice
* ~~A [billing e-mail address](#toc-changing-the-billing-e-mail-address), to which the invoices will be send to~~

Each app (except trial Apps) has is always associated with a specific payment method. Each payment method has its own invoice archive. Please also see the [billing article](/billing).

## Differences between Billing Contact, Company and Account

```
┌───────────────────────────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│                                   │ ┌───▶    App 1    │
│             ┌───────────────────┐ │ │   └─────────────┘
│             │ payment method 1  ├─┼─┤   ┌─────────────┐
│             └───────────────────┘ │ └───▶    App 2    │
│   Company   ┌───────────────────┐ │     └─────────────┘
│             │ payment method 2  ├─┼─┐   ┌─────────────┐
│             └───────────────────┘ │ └───▶    App 3    │
│                                   │     └─────────────┘
└───────────────────────────────────┘  
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐     
│  Account 1  │    │  Account 2  │     
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘     
```

The payment method is part of a [Company](/company) on fortrabbit. Within the fortrabbit Company you can create multiple payment methods and then assign individual Apps to either payment methods. You could also create multiple Companies to achieve that, but with multiple you can still manage the same team on the Company. Remember: [Accounts](/account) are representing persons here on fortrabbit.

## Creating a Billing Contact

Each Company comes with one payment method out of the box, when creating a Company, you also create a payment method. For most cases this is enough. But in some cases you might want to separate billing within one Company. So you can create multiple payment method under one Company like so:

* Dashboard Home >
* Companies >
* {{ Your Company }} >
* Hit the **New Billing Contact** button

Follow the steps. You will be asked for an invoice address and a payment method. This will give you an empty Billing Contact, no costs, as long as you don't assign an App to the payment method. You must be Owner of the Company for this. You might need to book a Company Plan to enable more payment methods.

## Deleting a payment method

You cannot, because they are bound to previously created invoices and are needed for our accounting. You can, of course, delete or move all Apps away from a payment method so that it becomes inactive and no more bills will be created for it. As the payment method also contains an archive of previously issued invoices, you can always access your old invoices.

To completely delete all invoices and all associated Apps, you can also [delete the Company](/company#toc-deleting-a-company).

## Changing the billing e-mail address

Each month we'll send an invoice and send a link by e-mail. You can change this e-mail to go directly to your book keeping department.

* Within the Dashboard (Home) >
* Companies (Your Company) >
* payment method >
* **Invoice e-mail**

This needs to be done by an Owner Account - see our [collaboration article](/billing-contact#toc-changing-the-billing-e-mail-address).

## Changing the invoice address

Your invoices contain the street address of your organization. You will be asked for that while setting up a payment method. You can change this invoice address for future invoices at any time like so:

* Dashboard > Companies > {{ Your Company }} >
* payment method >
* **Invoice address**

This needs to be done by an Owner Account - see our [collaboration article](/company-collaboration#toc-access-roles).

## Setting up a payment method

A valid payment method is required to use the fortrabbit services. Each payment method has an associated payment method. When creating a Company you can choose between different [payment method options](/payment-methods) and enter your credentials. fortrabbit will charge on a monthly basis [after usage](/billing#toc-consumption-based-billing).

### Troubleshooting payment setup

From time to time clients report issues with setting up new payment methods. Here are some common issues:

* Debit cards might not be accepted, use a full blown credit card please
* Sadly credit cards from certain countries like Nigeria seem to have less acceptance
* We are debiting the card with a test transaction with a small amount - that's not a payment, you'll get it back right after
* EU clients might need to solve strong authentication (redirect to bank website)
* US and other countries might need to authorize the test debit, in some cases that means calling up the bank

We can do little about this. We pass your data directly to the payment gateway. Thanks for your understanding.

## Changing the payment credentials

You have a new credit card or the old one is about to expire? Change the payment method of a payment method like so:

1. Dashboard > Billing > {{ your payment method }} > Settings > Payment credentials

Changing the payment credentials will affect future payments and will also be used to balance possible open invoices. In order to change the payment method you will need to have a fortrabbit [account](/dashboard/account) with access to the payment method.

## Adding a VAT IN

It is recommended to add your VAT IN to your payment method when your company is registered in the European Union. This can save you (and us) upfront value added taxes. Please see our [tax topic](/vat). To enter your VAT IN:

1. Dashboard > Companies > {{ Your Company }} >
2. payment method >
3. **VAT IN**

Please mind that we need to validate the VAT IN. So the number you enter needs to match the correct format. Please mind that your VAT IN is not the tax number. The correct number should start with your country code. Our VAT IN looks like so:

Entering the VAT IN will change how VAT will be charged for future invoices, entering the VAT IN can not affect past invoices.

This needs to be done by an Owner Account - see our [collaboration article](/billing-contact#toc-changing-the-billing-e-mail-address).

## Costs monitoring

You can see a live preview of the usage for the current month:

1. Log in to the Dashboard
2. Go to your Company (Company Name)
3. Under payment method select the "Current costs"

There you'll find a cost preview (invoice draft) for the ongoing month, covering all of your Apps. This shows what will be printed on the next invoice. Please mind that it will show the current costs of the day of the month so far, it will show different values the next day.

## Changing the payment method of an App

In case you want the App to be billed from another credit card or bank account but still want to keep the team of the App the same: You simply change the payment method of the App. You first need to have at least two payment methods with your Company. Then, please see the instructions with [app article](app#toc-changing-app-ownership) on how to change ownership of an App.

## Billing e-mail address

You can use a different e-mail address for each Billing Contact, see the [payment method help](billing-contact#toc-changing-the-billing-e-mail-address) in how to change that.

## Currencies

All payment methods within the EU are required to pay in EUR. payment methods from other countries can pay in USD or EUR. It is not possible to change the currency of a payment method later on. However, you can create a new payment method with a different currency and then move Apps there.

## Pending transactions

When you create a Billing Contact, we'll do a debit test on your credit card. This should not show up on your credit card statements, because we will not finalize this transaction. Some clients have reported that this transaction shows up in their online banking. In any case, this reserved amount will not be claimed by us.

## Downloading previous invoices

**Option 1**: Search your e-mail inbox for "fortrabbit invoice". Each invoice e-mail contains a secret link to the invoice. From there you can print or download the invoice.

**Option 2**: Use the "Download / print" button from the [Dashboard](/dashboard): Login to the Dashboard &gt; Your Account &gt; Companies (Your Company) &gt; payment method &gt; Invoice archive &gt; Invoice &gt; Download &amp; print invoice. This needs to be done from an Owner Account.

Invoices are shown as HTML. Depending on support in your browser, a PDF can be generated using the "Print to File" feature from your Browser/OS.
