---
title: Support FAQ
naviTitle: Support FAQ
navigation.excerpt: Setting support level expectations
figure:
  emoji: 🤔
  text: Wait. What about …
---

## What if I have an urgent question?

The scope of our support covers primarily helping with deployment of the code and configuring your Apps. Mind that we are also monitoring our systems for general issues. The few urgent cases we do see are usually connected to human errors when clients accidentally mess up or delete things. We have priority criteria policies, meaning that urgent and important cases will be answered first.

## What if I miss the answer?

That usually doesn't happen. You will get the answer by e-mail, when you are away. You can also answer on that e-mail or jump back into chat at any time. It works really well.

## Can I call you?

Sorry, no telephone support hotline here. fortrabbit limits the general support to online communication. It allows us to keep the pricing down, while maintaining a feature-rich application. It also helps us gathering details and other information for effective troubleshooting. A lot of our support involves pointing to relevant help articles, we feel this is easier to do in written form. The support cases are often technical in nature, requiring escalation to 2nd level support. We rely on the conversation prior to escalation to provide the basis for further troubleshooting and support.

## Where can I send feedback?

We like to hear your ideas! You can submit feedback via the same support bubble on our website.
