---
reviewed: 2026-07-04
reviewer: fl
title: Developer connection
naviTitle: Developer connection
navigation.excerpt: Access context for developers interacting with apps in teams.
figure:
  emoji: 🔌
  text: Plug in to code.
  color: rgb(139, 92, 246)
  textColor: rgb(221, 214, 254)
lead: A developer connection defines how a developer is associated with an app.
links:
  - title: Billing connection
    route: /platform/collaboration/billing-connection
  - title: Technical contact
    route: /platform/collaboration/technical-contact
head:
  meta:
    - name: keywords
      content: 'developer connection, app access, team access, developer roles, fortrabbit'
---

```plain
# Developer connection
person → app
person → team → app
```

## What you can do with a developer connection

- Change settings and deploy code to an app
- Delete apps
- Create apps

## Who can have a developer connection?

- Developers only, see [account types](/1.platform/20.collaboration/7.account-types.md)

## Developer connection types

A developer can have a direct developer connection or through a [team](/1.platform/10.objects/04.team.md):

### Direct developer connection

You can have your own personal apps that can also be shared. You can also be invited or invite other developers to directly connect to an app you have access to. See [app invite](/1.platform/20.collaboration/19.how-to/09.invite-to-app.md).

### Team developer connections

When creating an app and you have access on teams, you will be asked about the context, which can either be personal or team.

Not all team members are automatically connected to all apps of the team. Instead you can subscribe to apps that you'd like to be connected to. Unlimited team members can subscribe themselves. Limited team members can request access to team apps. See [team roles](/1.platform/20.collaboration/8.team-roles.md).

## One developer connection per app

Each developer can only have one active developer connection to an app. While it is possible that an app is connected to different teams and also a developer can be part of different teams, the developer still needs to decide how they want to be connected to the app.

## Relation to technical contacts

Not all developers connected to the app need to be a [technical contact](/1.platform/20.collaboration/4.technical-contact.md).

## Relation to billing connection

A similar concept is the [billing connection](/1.platform/20.collaboration/5.billing-connection.md), which defines how a person has billing access to an app.
