---
reviewed:   2023-07-08 15:18:32
title:      Pricing concepts at fortrabbit
naviTitle:  Pricing
excerpt:    "Pricing structure, usage based pricing"
lead:       "Apps are grouping environments. Environments consist of components. Components are available in plans. Wait. What?"
---

## Pricing structure

The example diagram below illustrates the billable structure of an account with two apps, one with one [environment](/13.platform/2.objects/2.environment.md), the other with two environments. The environments have different plans of components booked.

```plain
- App 1 (takas)
  - Environment (production)
    - Components
      - PHP S
      - Web storage XS
      - Traffic S
      - MySQL OFF
      - …
- App 2 (project-earth)
  - Environment (production)
    - Components
      - PHP M
      - Web storage M
      - MaySQL L
  - Environment (staging)
    - Components
      - …
```

Let's zoom in. The table below shows two example components, each on an example plan.

| **Component** | **Plan** |
| ------------- | -------: |
| PHP           |        S |
| MySQL         |        M |

Please see the [components section](/10.components/index.md) for a full list and availability. The [pricing page](https://www.fortrabbit.com/pricing) shows all the numbers.

## Usage based pricing with tiers

To support immediate scaling of components, costs are allocated over time and billed at the end of the monthly service period. The component plans are grouped in carefully designed buckets, think tiered pricing. That makes the costs predictable and unlikely to fluctuate.

See the [pro rated billing article](3.pro-rated-billing.md) for more details. The [invoice anatomy](2.invoice-anatomy.md) explains the monthly invoices.

## Autoscaling

Some components are offering autoscaling. When turned on, the component might change it's plan based on it's required hardware resources. When an app environment, for example, receives more traffic than usual, it may slip into the next tier for the service period. When turned off, the pricing is guaranteed not to change, but it's possible that the website will go offline.

## Collaboration

At fortrabbit a payment method holds the apps. A payment method is an object that has payment credentials attached and receives the invoices. Different people may have access on the payment method to change it and receive invoices. See the [payment method article](/13.platform/2.objects/9.payment-method.md) for more.

## Costs monitoring

The dashboard offer various levels to monitor the hosting costs for the ongoing service period.
