---
reviewed: 2024-12-18 20:11:53
title: Backup files
naviTitle: Backup files
navigation.excerpt:
lead: How to use the files downloaded from the backup component to actually restore a website.
---

The fortrabbit [backup component](/9.components/5.backups.md) provides you with a downloadable file archive of an [environment](/10.objects/2.app-environment.md) at a given time (see [retention](/17.backups/backup-retention.md)).

This archive contains everything required to restore the state of that backup.

### Recover the database

The database backup file is a regular MySQL dump, generated by the `mysqldump` tool. You can recover from it the same way you would (re-)import MySQL data into your database. Please read on [MySQL export/import](/8.mysql/3.export-import.md).

### Recover storage

Storage backups are stored in an uncompressed `.tar` archive file. How to recover your storage data, depends on what you want to recover: Just a single file, a couple of files or everything?

**Recover a single file or a couple of files**: Just download the storage backup file, unpack it locally, copy the files you want to recover manually back to your App.

**Recover everything**: After downloading and unpacking the storage `.tar` archive locally, you need to remove all files from your current App, then upload the previously unpacked archive again.

## Backup excludes

Some run-time and cache files, like a `storage` folder, are excluded from the file backups to save some space within the backups. For the same reason `*.mysql` files are excluded - we already provide MySQL backups without affecting performance while creating. Whole exclude list:

```raw
# Craft 3 and 4
storage/backups
storage/logs
storage/runtime
web/cpresources

# Laravel
storage/framework
storage/logs

# Misc
.git
.idea
*.sql
```
