---
reviewed: 2026-07-09
reviewer: fl
title: Domain registration providers
naviTitle: Intro
navigation.excerpt: Recommendations for domain providers
nextNav: true
figure:
  emoji: 🌐
  text: Choose the right domain provider.
  color: rgb(59, 130, 246)
  textColor: rgb(219, 234, 254)
lead: fortrabbit doesn't provide domain registration; learn what to look for when choosing a domain provider to connect with your apps.
head:
  meta:
    - name: keywords
      content: domain registration, domain provider, DNS, top-level domain, TLD, fortrabbit
links:
  - title: External domains
    route: /platform/dns/external-domains
    property: docs
  - title: Apex domain
    route: /platform/dns/apex-domains
    property: docs
  - title: WWW forwarding
    route: /platform/dns/domain-forwarding-service
    property: docs
  - title: Market overview domain providers
    route: /market-overview-domain-providers
    property: blog
---

## About domain registration

Domain registration is the process of acquiring a web address for a website - a Top Level Domain. To do this, you need to go through a domain registrar, which will check availability and let you purchase the domain, usually for a year in advance. Once registered, you can link the domain to your fortrabbit environments by setting appropriate DNS records.

Domains are often bundled with consumer hosting packages. But in most cases domains can also be purchased individually. There are dedicated domain providers too. This decoupled approach is perfect for modern cloud hosting platforms like fortrabbit, where you bring your own domain.

It's common to choose a local domain registration provider, since they sometimes offer better rates for your country's TLDs and will provide pricing in your currency. There are various offerings, so you should consider upfront what you'll need. We look at:

1. Advanced DNS configuration support
2. IMAP/POP3 e-mail accounts - see [email providers](/4.integrations/05.email/01.intro.md)
3. Exotic top-level domains (TLDs)
4. General domain forwarding with HTTPS
5. Support for domain forwards using [ALIAS or ANAME records](/4.integrations/02.dns/aname-alias-records.md)

Many of our clients are using classical offerings combining domain ordering and e-mail hosting. Others are using separate services for domain registration and e-mail hosting, there are also dedicated services that only offer DNS.

## How does the domain provider relate to fortrabbit?

fortrabbit does not provide domain registration or name servers. Instead you point the external domain to fortrabbit using DNS instructions.
