---
rank: 10
reviewed: 2025-09-11 21:43:21
title: The environment
naviTitle: Environment
navigation.excerpt: An online version of your project
lead: An online version of your website including a full runtime.
---

## Intro

While the Git repo is connected with the [app](/1.platform/10.objects/1.app.md), the environment can be mapped to a git branch. [Git deployment](/3.dev/03.deployment/01.intro.md) is optional but blends in nicely.

- An environment is a sub object of an [app](/1.platform/10.objects/1.app.md)
- Each app needs to have at least one environment
- Environments are managed in the [dashboard](/1.platform/02.concepts/30.dashboard.md)
- Each environment is a separated hosting setup
- Each environment has individual settings
- Each environment has individually billed [components](/1.platform/02.concepts/03.components.md)
- Create [multi staging workflows](/3.dev/15.learn/03.staging-environments.md) with multiple environments

## Wording

We usually use 'environment', in some contexts maybe 'environment' since this explicitly names the fortrabbit object and can not be confused with a development environment. In the dashboard, the environment title will constructed lie so: `{app name} / {environment id}`.

## Creating an environment

While creating a new app you will also create an environment along the way. You can also create new environments for any of your apps later on.

:BlockLink{title="Create an environment" path="/new/environment"}

## Deleting an environment

To delete an environment, visit the environment in the dashboard, find and hit the "delete" button. You will need to confirm what you are about to do. The environment will then get deleted within a couple of minutes. The environments and it's component will be billed until the day of deletion. Deletion is irreversible and includes all files and the database.

## Dashboard settings

The dashboard exposes a variety of settings to manage and control the environment. The number of settings may depend on the booked components. Here is brief intro:

### Overview

- Preview image and link
- Connected domains
- Latest events
- Current costs
- Latest deployed commit
- Metric breakdown
- CRUD actions

### Routing

You can register your environment to accept requests from any external custom domain you route to fortrabbit — see also [the domain article](/1.platform/10.objects/10.domain.md). To set up a domain routing, you add a new custom domain within your App's domain settings in the dashboard.

### Main domain

Each environment can have one environment. It's a setting with the routing. See more details with [domain settings](/1.platform/10.objects/10.domain.md#main-domain).

### Firewall

Most connections calls on most ports are forbidden for security reasons. You can request to white-list a port or port range. With the firewall setting of your App you can see custom white-listed ports and request a new firewall rule.

### Metrics

Each environment comes with usage metrics: Those show you the current status of the storage, MySQL storage in context.

Some Apps also come with "**performance metrics**": Those show you how fast your App is and where you might need to improve. Performance metrics are: requests, PHP response time, traffic, errors and other useful stuff. You can set different time intervals to monitor performance over time.

### Restart

The restart button will restart all services. This can sometimes be helpful when processes are hanging.

In some edge cases, like hanging PHP processes with 504 errors or 408 errors, restarting an environment can be an option. Here is how you can do this:

1. visit the environment in the dashboard
2. find and click the "Restart" button
3. wait a minute until changes are applied

This will restart the Apache service and the PHP-FPM processes. Nothing more, the data will stay safe. There will be a short downtime. Use carefully, it should not be used on a regular basis. This button is not a silver bullet to fix all server issues. If performance is a constant issue, see [performance topic](/3.dev/02.performance).

## Deleting an environment

You can delete any environment you own or administer. To delete an environment, go to the environment in the dashboard and click the "delete" button. The environment will be removed within a few minutes, including all files and databases.

### Recovering deleted environments

Environment deletion is permanent and cannot be reversed. We thoroughly remove data when requested by clients or when required due to legal or payment issues. This policy protects your privacy and security. We believe you have the right to be forgotten rather than having your data held hostage (for payment). In most cases, this complete deletion is actually beneficial. For more information, see [how we handle bounced payments](/1.platform/12.billing/23.late-payments.md).
