---
reviewed: 2026-01-31 13:59:59
title: Free trial details
naviTitle: Free trial
figure:
  emoji: 🧭
  text: Explore and experiment.
  textColor: rgb(150, 30, 30)
  color: rgb(140, 140, 120)
navigation.excerpt: Options and limits
lead: Each new app at fortrabbit starts with a free trial that is limited in time. Use cases, options and limits.
---

## Starting a new trial

Create a new app in to the dashboard. Each new app starts as a new trial.

## Use cases

The flexible free trial allows a variety of use cases and workflows. Fair usage of provided resources is expected.

- Exploring the platform
- Feature development
- Handover work to a client
- Weekend experiments

## Trial time limit

There is a 72h time limit for the trial. A countdown timer in the dashboard with the app will show you the time left. We may experiment with different timing options.

<!-- ## Extend trial time

:ContactUs{text="Request more trial time"} with support to extend trial time. Write something about your goals and why you need more time. In most cases, we are happy to extend your trial time. This needs to be done ahead of trial end. -->

## Trial end

Within the free trial period of an app you can define what shall happen when the trial period ends:

### Opt-in

- DEFAULT
- no credit card required
- the app will be **deleted** at the end of the trial time
- add a payment method to the app before trial end to keep it

### Opt-out

- attach a payment method to a free trial app
- valid payment credentials required (no charges during trial)
- start paying after the trial ends
- cancel at any time before

## DELETE on trial end

When the trial period ends, the app, all environments and associated data will be deleted.

We believe this approach is fair and transparent, rather than holding your data hostage until you pay us a ransom.

You will receive an email with enough time ahead notifying on the upcoming trial end. The dashboard also displays a countdown timer showing your remaining trial time.

Apps are designed to be disposable. We kindly ask you to have your own backups. The best way to make use of fortrabbit is to have a fully functional local development environment. Good news is: You can start a new trial right away and re-deploy existing your code.

## Free trial limits

The free trial is only limited by time. It's possible to book all components in all sizes. For larger plans opt-in is required.
