---
reviewed:   2023-07-08 15:18:32
title:      Pricing concepts at fortrabbit
naviTitle:  Pricing
excerpt:    "Pricing structure, usage based pricing"
lead:       "Apps are grouping environments. Environments consist of components. Components are available in plans. Wait. What?"
---

## Pricing structure

The example diagram below illustrates the billable structure of an account with two apps, one with one [environment](/10.objects/2.app-environment.md), the other with two environments. The environments have different plans of components booked.

```plain
- App 1 (takas)
  - Environment (production)
    - Components
      - PHP S
      - Web storage XS
      - Traffic S
      - MySQL OFF
      - …
- App 2 (project-earth)
  - Environment (production)
    - Components
      - PHP M
      - Web storage M
      - MaySQL L
  - Environment (staging)
    - Components
      - …
```

See the [components article](/11.concepts/components.md) for more on those.

## Usage based pricing with tiers

To support immediate scaling of components, costs are allocated over time and billed at the end of the monthly service period. The component plans are grouped in carefully designed buckets, think tiered pricing. That makes the costs predictable and unlikely to fluctuate.

See the [pro rated billing article](3.pro-rated-billing.md) for more details. The [invoice anatomy](2.invoice-anatomy.md) explains the monthly invoices.

## Pricing benefits

The pricing structure follows patterns from the professional cloud hosting infra structure providers.

### Individuality

Book the components your application required, only in the required size. This makes it a cost effective solution.

### Scalability

Increase only the size of the component that actually requires more horse power. Options from extra small to extra extra large are available at demand.

### Disposability

The daily pricing makes testing and experimenting easy without having to worry about associated costs. Temporary scale up or down plans for traffic peaks. Create temporary testing environments.

## Autoscaling

Some components are offering autoscaling. When turned on, the component might change it's plan based on it's required hardware resources. When an app environment, for example, receives more traffic than usual, it may slip into the next tier for the service period. When turned off, the pricing is guaranteed not to change, but it's possible that the website will go offline.

## Shared resources

Most component plans are available as shared resources.

## Dedicated resources

Some higher plans of components are available as 'dedicated'. That means

## Collaboration

At fortrabbit a payment method holds the apps. A payment method is an object that has payment credentials attached and receives the invoices. Different people may have access on the payment method to change it and receive invoices. See the [payment method article](/10.objects/9.payment-method.md) for more.

## Reginal pricing

fortrabbit services are offered in (€) EUR and ($) USD. Different prices may apply based on the selected currency. It's also possible that prices differ by data center location.

## Available currencies

All payment methods within the EU are required to pay in EUR. [Payment methods](/10.objects/9.payment-method.md) from other countries can pay in USD or EUR. It is not possible to change the currency of a payment method later on. However, you can create a new payment method with a different currency and then move Apps there.

## Costs monitoring

The dashboard offer various levels to monitor the hosting costs for the ongoing service period.
