---
# reviewed: 2024-06-23 15:48:21
rank: 10
title: The app
naviTitle: App
navigation.excerpt: Grouping environments and collaboration
figure:
  emoji: 📦
  text: Environments, collaboration, billing.
  color: rgb(60, 90, 210)
  textColor: rgb(20, 200, 240)
lead: Apps are grouping environments together and are the main subject of collaboration.
links:
  - title: Project organization
    route: /platform/get-started/project-organization
---

## Creating an app

Start a new app with the fortrabbit dashboard. The wizard will walk you through setting up the app, including plans and pricing, collaboration, software templates, data center location and git deployment.

:BlockLink{title="Create an app" path="/new/app/"}

## Apps and environments

Each app represents one website or web application. Think about an app like a Git repo. In fact you can link a Git repo to an app. Each app has one ore more [environments](/1.platform/10.objects/02.environment.md). Think about environments as git branches containing all data and runtime settings.

## Collaboration

The app is the main [collaboration](/1.platform/20.collaboration/1.intro.md) object. Developers can be added and removed from apps to manage settings, environments, deploy and access code.

## Billing

Apps are owned by [payment methods](/1.platform/10.objects/09.payment-method.md) and managed by developers in [teams](/1.platform/10.objects/04.team.md) or directly. The app can be moved from one payment method to another.

## Deleting an app

You can always delete Apps you have access on. To delete an app, visit the app in the dashboard, find and hit the "delete" button. The app will then get deleted within a couple of minutes - this includes all files and the database and is irreversible.

## Preview image and links

In some lists, apps can show a preview image and a link to be visited in the browser. The image and the link will use the [environment](/1.platform/10.objects/02.environment.md) that is most likely production and it's [main domain](/1.platform/10.objects/10.domain.md#main-domain).

## App name

While creating an app, a name is suggested. When connecting a Git repo, the name of the repo is used. You can change that to anything you like. Choose a name that is easy for you to identify your project. The app name is only an identifier for the dashboard. It's not used anywhere else.

There is also an option to add a description to the app name.

## Changing the Git repo of an app

You can change the repo of the app with the dashboard. It's a multi step process, as all environments will need to have branches mapped.

## Changing the payment method of an app

You can move an app to a different payment method you have access to.

The app will be billed on the old payment method until that day of change and from the next day on to the new payment method. See [post paid billing](/1.platform/12.billing/02.postpaid.md) for more.

## Technical contacts

You can set technical contacts with the app. A technical contact is a 'web master' person that can be contacted by fortrabbit.

Please [see the technical contact article](/1.platform/20.collaboration/4.technical-contact.md) for more details.
