---
reviewed: 2025-10-11 09:11:40
title: The invoice object
naviTitle: Invoice
navigation.excerpt: Understanding the fortrabbit invoice
lead: The invoice object is a recording of booked component plans across environments per month and payment method.
siblings: Objects
links:
  - title: Pricing page
    route: /pricing
    property: www
  - title: Payment method
    route: /platform/objects/payment-method
  - title: Components
    route: /platform/concepts/components
  - title: Topic billing
    route: /billing/
---

## Invoice details

Each [payment method](/1.platform/10.objects/09.payment-method.md) with attached apps will get an invoice for each service period (monthly) - after the service period ends. The invoice contains all the apps, their environments and booked components.

- Invoice number - An individual number.
- Invoice date - The day, the invoice was printed.
- Service period - The backdating month.
- Invoice address - Postal address from payment method.
- Invoice email - Email address from payment method.
- VAT - See [VAT article](../12.billing/22.vat.md).

## States

Invoices have a lifetime, going through various phases:

### Draft

During an ongoing service period, an invoice draft is kept and updated daily and with each booking. The invoice draft helps customers to keep track of current costs.

### Paid

At the enf of the service period, the invoice will be finalized, send to customers. The payment credentials of the payment method will be used to automatically pay the invoice. When successful, the invoice is paid.

### Bounced

When the payment credentials on file fail, the invoice will be marked as bounced. If that will not resolved after various automatic retries, service cancellation is next. See [late payments](/1.platform/12.billing/23.late-payments.md).

## Invoice item rows

Each invoice contains a number of rows. They are grouped by environment as each has a set of booked components. Each invoice row contains the booked component and it's plan and how many days it is billed for by days. The table gives you an idea how components and plans appear on an invoice.

| Component plan | Days billed | Daily price |  Month |
| -------------- | ----------: | ----------: | -----: |
| PHP XS         |          10 |       $0.10 | $15.00 |
| PHP S          |          20 |       $0.16 | $15.00 |
| Traffic S      |          30 |       $0.03 |  $1.00 |

In this example PHP XS was booked for a couple of days and then replaced by PHP S. See the [postpaid billing article](/1.platform/12.billing/02.postpaid.md) for more on that.

The printed invoice document may look a bit different.
