---
# reviewed: 2024-06-23 15:48:21
naviTitle: App
title: App
navigation.excerpt: Grouping environments and collaboration
lead: Apps are grouping environments together and are the main subject of collaboration.
---

## Creating an app

Start a new app with the fortrabbit dashboard. The wizard will walk you through setting up the app, including plans and pricing, collaboration, software templates, data center location and git deployment.

:BlockLink{title="Create an app" path="/new/app/"}

## Apps and environments

[Each app represents one website](/1.platform/11.concepts/one-website-per-app.md) or web application. Think about an app like a git repo. In fact you can link a Git repo to an app. Each app has one ore more [environments](/1.platform/10.objects/2.app-environment.md). Think about environments as git branches containing all data and runtime settings.

## Collaboration

The app is the main [collaboration](//16.collaboration/1.intro.md) object. Developers can be added and removed from apps to manage settings, environments, deploy and access code.

## Billing

Apps are owned by [payment methods](/1.platform/10.objects/9.payment-method.md) and managed by developers in [teams](/1.platform/10.objects/4.team.md) or directly. The app can be moved from one payment method to another.

## Deleting an app

You can always delete Apps you have access on. To delete an app, visit the app in the dashboard, find and hit the "delete" button. The app will then get deleted within a couple of minutes - this includes all files and the database and is irreversible.

## Preview image and links

In some lists, apps can show a preview image and a link to be visited in the browser. The image and the link will use the [environment](/1.platform/10.objects/2.app-environment.md) that is most likely production and it's [main domain](/1.platform/10.objects/10.domain.md#main-domain).

## The app name

While creating the app you can choose a name that is easy for you to identify your project. The app name is only an identifier for the dashboard.

## Changing the git repo of an app

You can change the repo of the app.

## Changing the payment method of an app

You can move an app to a different payment method you have access to.

The app will be billed on the old payment method until that day of change and from the next day on to the new payment method. See [pro rated billing](/12.billing/3.pro-rated-billing.md) for more.

## Technical contacts

Please [see here](/1.platform/16.collaboration/1.technical-contact.md).
