---
rank: 10
reviewed: 2025-07-15 14:20:25
title: The domain
naviTitle: Domain
navigation.excerpt: Domain types and usage
lead: Each fortrabbit app environment has a test domain. Additionally you can route external domains.
links:
  - title: External domains
    route: /dev/dns/external-domains
    property: docs
  - title: Apex domain
    route: /dev/dns/apex-domains
    property: docs
  - title: Domain forwarding
    route: /dev/dns/domain-forwarding
    property: docs
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'TLD, Top Level Domain, top-level-domain, registration, ordering, zone apex, apex domain, root domain, subdomain, domain masking, domain name server, DNS, ns, lookup'
---

## Test domain

Each [app environment](/1.platform/10.objects/02.app-environment.md) has a unique public test domain assigned that is constructed like `{{app-env-id}}.frbit.app`. Use it during development, testing or [multi staging](/1.platform/02.setup/02.staging-environments.md). Look up the actual name for your test domain with the [dashboard](/1.platform/02.concepts/30.dashboard.md) under the app environment overview.

## External domain

An "external domain" is a domain registered with a third party domain name registrar. fortrabbit does not provide domain registration services. Proceed here:

- [Domain provider integration](/14.integrations/10.domain-providers.md) - combine domain provider with fortrabbit
- [External domains intro](/3.dev/13.dns/1.external-domains.md) - options and limits
- [Point an external domain](/3.dev/13.dns/2.external-domain-setup.md) - step by step instructions

## Main domain

Each app environment has a main domain. It is exposed as a routing setting with the environment of the dashboard. The thumbnail preview shown with the dashboard uses the main domain as the source. It's also used for internal monitoring services. There is also a dynamic [ENV var](/3.dev/19.env-vars/1.intro.md/2.usage.md) that maps to the currently configured value.

:BlockLink{title="Change the main domain" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/settings/main-domain"}

## Target settings

For most domains the target can be changed. Target settings can not be changed for:

- apex domains: will always forward to their www counterpart
- main domains: define a different main domain first

### Environment setting

Change the environment of an external domain with this setting. External domains can be moved across environments without DNS changes. This can be useful when switching the production domain to a new environment.

### Root path setting

A root path is a folder in the [file system](/1.platform/02.concepts/21.directories.md) of the [app environment](/1.platform/10.objects/02.app-environment.md) where a domain will end. The root path is saved with the app environment for all it's domains. That means, no interface is offered to configure individual root paths per domain. You can however configure custom routing of domains in your code and config, either by `.htaccess` rules or by some routing options with your software.

### Domain forwarding

The dashboard allows you to forward domains with the same app environment. Usually you will want to forward all domains to your main domain. See the [www domain forwarding article](/3.dev/13.dns/2.domain-forwarding.md).
