---
rank: 2
reviewed: 2025-12-20 15:29:53
title: The SSH key object
naviTitle: SSH key
navigation.excerpt: Authentication keys stored with your account.
figure:
  emoji: 🔑
  text: Bring your keys.
  color: rgba(190, 68, 68, 1)
  textColor: rgba(250, 200, 200, 1)
lead: 
links:
  - title: SSH key setup
    route: /dev/learn/ssh-key-setup
    property: docs
  - title: Code access intro
    route: /platform/code-access/intro
    property: docs
  - title: Deployment intro
    route: /platform/deployment/intro
    property: docs
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'git push to deploy, buildpack'
---

Remember, on fortrabbit an account represents a [person](/1.platform/10.objects/03.person.md). SSH key authentication is used to securely identify you for your personal [code access](/1.platform/04.code-access/01.intro.md). SSH keys are an object within the fortrabbit dashboard. [Personal SSH keys](#personal-keys) can be managed with your account settings, deploy keys with each environment.

Don't have local SSH keys already or don't know what that is? See the [SSH key setup and intro](/3.dev/15.learn/01.ssh-key-setup.md).

## Adding SSH keys to fortrabbit

:BlockLink{title="Add a new SSH key" path="/new/ssh-key"}

The public part of the key must be imported in the fortrabbit dashboard. Paste the PUBLIC part of the key and not the private part. The value to paste into the text field can be read into the clipboard.

```shell
# macOS
$ pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

# Linux
$ xclip -i < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

# Windows
# Open the `id_ed25519.pub` file, select all, then copy.
```

## Personal keys

:BlockLink{title="Manage your SSH keys" path="/you/ssh-keys"}

In most cases you want to add SSH keys to your personal developer account at fortrabbit to directly login to the environment and opening an SSH tunnel. Personal SSH keys will be automatically added to all the environments you have a [developer connection](/1.platform/20.collaboration/5.developer-connection.md) to.

Already using GitHub and our [deployment flows](/1.platform/05.deployment/01.intro.md)? The fortrabbit dashboard may directly import public keys associated with your GitHub account so you don't need to setup additional keys for this.

## Deploy keys

In certain scenarios, you may want to grant a non-human service access to an environment. Use deploy keys for that. The deploy keys are managed via the dashboard with the environments. Adding and removing such keys follows the same concepts as described above. Use deploy keys to integrate with [Git hosting services](/4.integrations/03.git-providers/01.intro.md) or deploy services.
