---
reviewed: 2024-07-20 11:59:23
title: The team object
naviTitle: Team
navigation.excerpt: Settings and options for developer groups
lead: A group of developers collaborating on code and billing.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'beginner, platform, teamwork, sharing, roles, organization, access, tenant, client, employees'
---

## Recap

Your [fortrabbit account](3.person.md) is your personal access. The [payment method](/1.platform/10.objects/9.payment-method.md) represents the legal entity owning apps. The team object in the dashboard represents a group of developers collaborating on apps and payment methods. Check out the [collaboration intro](/16.collaboration/1.intro.md) for more of the basics.

## Use cases

A team may represent your real live connections with other developers, like:

- A whole organization - your small agency, startup, association
- An organizational unit - a smaller group within a business, team tokio
- Any other kind of group of developers

## Creating a team

You can create as many teams as you want with the dashboard. Teams are free of charge. Here is the link to get started: :BlockLink{title="Create a team" path="/new/team"}

## Inviting team members

You can invite more team member through the dashboard. More details [here](/16.collaboration/10.team-invite.md).

## Access levels

There are two roles with the team: limited and unlimited. See the [team roles article](/16.collaboration/7.team-roles.md) for more.

## Payment method access

[Payment methods](/1.platform/10.objects/9.payment-method.md) can be attached to teams. Teams can own apps via payment methods created by their members. This also allows billing collaboration, when teams participate on payment methods by clients.

## Deleting a team

When deleting a team, payment methods and apps that are only associated through this team will be deleted along the way. There is a warning screen when deleting the team, explaining what will happen and what not. Deleting a team will not cancel your personal account.

## Leaving a team

Everyone, except the last full member, can leave a team. In that case the team will stay, but you will loose access to it and it's objects. When you cancel your account and you are part of a team with other members left, you will leave the team.

## Working with multiple teams

Just like in real life, you can create or join any number of teams with your account. So one account can be part of multiple teams in different roles.

## One person in different teams

If you have multiple teams and you want to collaborate with same person on all or a subset of them: Just invite them to each team. The same person then will have access to all teams while logged in with their account.

## When developers leave

The developer who leaves a team will loose the ability to see and edit the apps in the dashboard and also will loose all personal code access. There are two directions of leaving a team:

### Active: A developer leaves a team

You might want to leave the team when the project you have collaborated on has ended or you are actually leaving the team in real live as well.

1. Dashboard > team > Team overview
2. Click the "Leave" button

You can not leave a team when you are the last member remaining. A team must have at least one member.

### Passive: Team access is revoked

Let's say a project phase has ended, so that developer does not need have access any more.

#### How to revoke developer access

1. Dashboard > teams > team overview > members
2. Click the action button to edit access
3. This will bring up a form in which you can edit and revoke access
