---
title: Frontend performance best practices
naviTitle: Frontend performance
navigation.excerpt: Optimize frontend code for speed
figure:
  emoji: 🚀
  text: Make the last meters feel fast.
  color: rgb(245, 158, 11)
  textColor: rgba(90, 50, 30, 1)
lead: Are you a full-stack developer? A lot of delivery can be optimized in the front facing side of your application. Let's have a look what can be done on the last meters and how to optimize content efficiency.
nextNav: true
---

## JS & CSS

Assets are static files, such as JS, CSS, SVG and some images. It's common to have two versions of your asset files:

- the original files, that you can edit, probably SASS, POSTCSS, TS … (included in Git)
- the optimized files that are served in production (usually not included in Git)

Minifying JS/CSS files removes unnecessary extra spaces, line breaks and indentations. Modern tools support tree shaking as well. Another technique is to combine — concating — different JS or CSS files into one file. This brings you: less requests and probably better GZIP compression ratios. Finally, there are specific techniques to further reduce size: For JS, variable names can be changed automatically for shorter ones, in CSS you can use shorthands and short notations of colors and values.

You can hook in Node.js pipelining tasks during [deployment build steps](/1.platform/05.deployment/3.build-commands.md).

## Images

Images (JPG, PNG, SVG, WebP …) represent around 70% of the total footprint of an average website. Most images are user generated content, for example when an editor uploads a photo to a CMS. Invest some time to tune your image transformations. Deliver only required sizes to the website visitor. Try different compression settings and even image formats. Consider using a third party service to host images, if your website needs a lot or if it has many visitors or you need to serve large versions og images.

## Videos

Our [traffic tiers](/1.platform/09.components/04.traffic.md) are not designed to host local videos. It's recommended to outsource video hosting to a 3rd party. That will also help with compression and delivery.

## Web fonts

Web fonts are nice but they also come with a footprint. The file size is determined by the number of glyphs, metadata and compression. On top of that, there are four different formats and you probably need to include all to have the best coverage. External services can help to optimize font size and delivery.

## Caching assets

Don't serve the same content to the same client twice. Cache it with their browser. While modern browsers are already doing great work here. You can further control the caching by altering the Cache-Control with the HTTP headers.

GZIP provides lossless compression for
text files such as HTML, CSS or JS. It's implemented on the web server — Apache in our case otherwise nginx — as a module. You can enable and configure it in your `.htaccess` file (see also our [htaccess GZIP article](/3.dev/21.htaccess/4.gzip.md).

It works like this: after all the HTML is rendered on the server side it gets compressed and send to the browser in such a minified format. The browser then has to decompress everything on the fly. So as you can imagine: that of course saves bandwidth but also costs a little bit of CPU on both sides. It is in general recommended to use it but can cause strange effects when combined with other techniques, like caching.

## Cookies

Eat diet Cookies! Cookies are sent in the HTTP headers in every single request, always. Use a different domain for serving static assets can help to reduce the cookie traffic.

## DNS lookups

You might parallelize downloads across host names. This may help speed up delivery, but if the number of host names is too long the time that the client spends to resolve the domain can affect negatively. The concurrent connections of web browsers is limited.

## Check your speed

Faster websites and apps are more fun to use and are better ranked in search engines. Measure the performance of your App. Master the web developer tools of your browser and use external services such as Google PageSpeed (Lighthouse), YSlow and GTmetrix.

## External data sources

If you are integrating external services, for example for any kind of REST API, make sure it does not slow you down. Set proper but very small timeouts and log response times once they exceed the threshold.

Congrats. You came all the way to the bottom.
