---
title: Troubleshoot performance
naviTitle: Troubleshooting
navigation.excerpt: What to do with slow websites
figure:
  emoji: 🕵️‍♂️
  text: Track down issues.
  color: rgb(79, 70, 229)
  textColor: rgba(224, 231, 255, 1)
lead: 'What you may want to know about PHP related performance issues.'
nextNav: true
---

Most websites performance problems can be backtraced to code and config issues. Most often it's oversight or missing experience and attention to [performance design](/3.dev/02.performance/03.best-practices.md) from the developer.

## Performance problem sources

Even with PHP based websites and web applications, PHP is not the only possible source of a slow website.

- Server side issues: PHP execution is slow
- Frontend issues: fat assets, blocking requests …
- Config issues: Plugin misconfigured, expensive lookups
- Large datasets: Production setup has a ton of data
- Database problems: Slow queries,
- Hosting problems: bad neighbors, old hardware, cramped servers …

## Refactor code

Only good code can fly. Review your code. Make it perform better. See our [performance design article](/3.dev/performance-design.md) for inspiration.

## Book more hosting resources

Of course, we - as our hosting provider - have an interest in selling you bigger servers. But our experience shows that it usually needs a lot of money to compensate coding and config mistakes and is usually also not a good fix. You can try shopping more PHP memory, better CPU power, and more PHP process.

## Swap issues

In some cases swap usage by the application is not possible. In these cases you might see dreaded white-pages and along going error messages in the log: "Allowed memory size of 1234.. bytes exhausted (tried to allocate 234 bytes)." This should be understand as an urgent reminder to scale up the [PHP plan](/1.platform/09.components/1.php.md).
