---
reviewed: 2026-02-13
title: Direct code access
naviTitle: Intro
navigation.excerpt: SSH, SFTP
figure:
  emoji: 💻
  text: Direct code access.
  color: rgb(30, 58, 138)
  textColor: rgb(200, 200, 255)
lead: Access files, logs and runtime data in your environment directly.
---

## As alternative to Git deployment

We usually recommend to use [Git deployment](/1.platform/05.deployment/01.intro.md). But not every developer is used to [Git](/3.dev/15.learn/git-intro.md) yet and it has steep learning curve. Also not all software is ready to be used with Git and [Composer](/3.dev/15.learn/02.composer.md). Use [rsync](/3.dev/20.how-to/rsync.md), to upload your website.

## SSH

SSH (Secure Shell) is a network protocol to login to remote web servers. SSH is used in the terminal. It's pre-installed with most operating systems. With SSH you login to have an interactive session on the remote server - the [environment](/1.platform/10.objects/02.environment.md) in our case. SSH is not suited for transferring files from your computer to the server. See the [SSH guide](/1.platform/04.code-access/03.ssh.md) for more details.

## SFTP

SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol) is a network protocol to transfer files to and from web servers. It's build on top of SSH. You will usually use it with a graphical interface. See the [SFTP guide](/1.platform/04.code-access/04.sftp.md).

## SSH key authentication

To access code by either method, SSH keys are required. Upload your public SSH keys to your personal account with the dashboard. Read [more about SSH keys here](/3.dev/15.learn/01.ssh-key-setup.md).

:BlockLink{title="Your SSH keys" path="/you/keys"}

Your code access credentials are stored with your personal account on fortrabbit. This way you always have up-to-date code access on each environment you have access on. It also makes managing the team easy — add/remove collaborators and code access is handled "automagically".
