---
reviewed: 2024-08-01 09:17:50
title: SSH access
naviTitle: SSH
navigation.excerpt: Login to the remote shell
figure:
  emoji: 🔑
  text: Secure shell access.
  color: rgba(34, 100, 80, 1)
  textColor: rgba(180, 255, 200, 1)
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'beginner, deployment, shell, bash, terminal, sh'
---

## Get ready

- You need to have setup [SSH keys](/3.dev/15.learn/01.ssh-keys.md) to authenticate.
- See the direct [code access intro](/1.platform/04.code-access/01.intro.md) for uses cases and limits.

## Accessing SSH

Each [environment](/1.platform/10.objects/02.environment.md) has it's own SSH access. Execute the following in your terminal to login:

:BlockLink{title="See SSH access for {{app-name}} / {{env-name}}" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/ssh/"}

```shell
# Connect to your environment via SSH
$ ssh {{app-env-id}}@ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app
```

If the login went well, you will see a small welcome message:

```raw
–––––––––––––––––––––––  ∙ƒ  –––––––––––––––––––––––
```

## Executing PHP scripts

If you want to execute PHP scripts, including `artisan` and it's like, make sure to specify the PHP interpreter explicitly:

```shell
# will work
$ php artisan some:command
$ php some-script.php

# will _not_ work:
$ ./artisan some:command
$ ./some-script.php
```

## Using Composer

Using [Git deployment](/1.platform/05.deployment/01.intro.md) will trigger [Composer](/3.dev/15.learn/02.composer.md) automatically. Therefore, it should not be necessary to run Composer from the environment. If you still need to run Composer manually on the App, you can. Please think twice before using `composer update`, because that will bring your local code out of sync which is likely to cause issues. Use `composer install` instead. Again, running Composer directly on the App is probably not what you want to do.

## Limitations

- This is not a root shell, so you can't install or remove software packages
- Mind that you are using the same runtime as your web application: resource intensive operations will drain memory and CPU from the web execution
- [Worker and cron jobs](/1.platform/09.components/7.jobs.md) are managed via the dashboard, not the shell
