---
title: MySQL
navigation.excerpt: Database resources and storage
sidebar: database
lead: Scalable database resources, optional, on demand. MySQL is part why PHP is so popular. It's the M in the LAMP stack.
links:
  - title: Topic MySQL
    route: /platform/mysql
  - title: Database performance
    route: /dev/performance/database
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'mysql, database, innodb, myisam, heidisql, tunnel, nosql, RDS'
---

Most classical CMS systems, such as [WordPress](/2.guides/6.wordpress/01.setup.md) and [Craft CMS](/2.guides/3.craft-cms/01.install.md) are using it as the central data storage. Alternatives to MySQL are PostgreSQL and Redis derivatives like Valkey.

## Booking MySQL

A MySQL database is an optional component available in different plans. Each [environment](/1.platform/10.objects/02.environment.md) can have one database component containing one database booked. The database can have multiple tables of course. Currently, only MySQL databases are available.

## Configuration

When the database is enabled, multiple settings and metrics become available in the dashboard. Please refer to the [MySQL usage section](/3.dev/08.mysql) to learn more.

## Scaling

Database plans differ mostly in the available storage, as well as the associated computing power. Usually MySQL and [PHP](/1.platform/09.components/01.php.md) are scaled alongside since they rely on each other. As a rule of thumb, match PHP XS with MySQL XS, PHP SM with MySQL SM etc. See [database performance](/3.dev/02.performance/08.database.md).

When [autoscaling](/1.platform/12.billing/11.autoscaling.md) is enabled, smaller and larger plans are automatically booked, based on MySQL storage usage. If autoscaling is turned off and the limit is reached, the environment may go offline. Either upgrade the plan or clean up the database.

### Cleaning up the database

Databases can grow unexpectedly in undesired ways. A crawler bot can create endless entities, or a plugin generates excessive logs. Rather than simply upgrading the database plan, review whether the database usage is justified and clean up if necessary:

- [Connect to the database](/1.platform/08.mysql/01.access/01.intro.md)
- Query large tables, [see here](/1.platform/08.mysql/19.troubleshooting.md#query-large-tables)
- Review if data is required
- `DELETE` or `DROP` tables, columns, and rows that are not needed
- Wait a few minutes for the fortrabbit system to detect the new usage

Once you've resolved the issue and identified its cause, update code and config to prevent it from happening again. Keep an eye on the hosting metrics how usage behaves over time.

### MySQL OFF

The database is optional on fortrabbit. Your application may not require a database at all. [Kirby](/2.guides/4.kirby/01.intro.md), [Statamic](/2.guides/5.statamic/index.md) and [Grav](/2.guides/7.more/07.grav.md) as static file systems are not requiring MySQL in the basic setup at all. Or maybe you run a [Laravel](/2.guides/2.laravel/index.md) application that only consumes a third party API or uses [Redis](/1.platform/09.components/08.key-value-store.md). Please refer to the software requirements of your CMS or framework.

### Shared plans

These are the most commonly used plans. Indeed the XS and the S plan are covering most normal website scenarios already. You can store a lot of text in 256 MB.

### Dedicated plans

Higher plans are available for heavy users and large databases.
