---
title: MySQL
navigation.excerpt: Database resources and storage
sidebar: database
lead: Scalable database resources, optional, on demand. MySQL is part why PHP is so popular. It's the M in the LAMP stack.
siblings: Components
links:
  - title: Topic MySQL
    route: /dev/mysql
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'mysql, database, innodb, myisam, heidisql, tunnel, nosql, RDS'
---

Most classical CMS systems, such as [WordPress](/2.guides/5.more/5.wordpress.md) and [Craft CMS](/2.guides/3.craft/1.setup.md) are using it as the central data storage. Alternatives to MySQL are PostgreSQL and Redis derivatives like Valkey.

## Booking MySQL

A MySQL database is an optional component available in different plans. Each [app environment](/1.platform/10.objects/2.app-environment.md) can have one database component containing one database booked. The database can have multiple tables of course. Currently, only MySQL databases are available.

## Configuration

When the database is enabled, multiple settings and metrics become available in the dashboard. Please refer to the [MySQL usage section](/3.dev/8.mysql/) to learn more.

## Scaling

Database plans differ mostly in the available storage, as well as the associated computing power. Usually MySQL and [PHP](/1.platform/9.components/1.php.md) are scaled alongside since they rely on each other. Start small, scale on demand.

### MySQL OFF

The database is optional on fortrabbit. Your application may not require a database at all. [Kirby](/2.guides/5.more/6.kirby.md), [Statamic](/2.guides/4.statamic/index.md) and [Grav](/2.guides/5.more/7.grav.md) as static file systems are not requiring MySQL in the basic setup at all. Or maybe you run a [Laravel](/2.guides/2.laravel/index.md) application that only consumes a third party API or uses [Redis](8.redis.md). Please refer to the software requirements of your CMS or framework.

### Shared plans

These are the most commonly used plans. Indeed the XS and the S plan are covering most normal website scenarios already. You can store a lot of text in 256 MB.

### Dedicated plans

Higher plans are available for heavy users and large databases.

### Autoscaling

MySQL has an autoscaling option. When turned on the next tier will be booked, once the storage limit is reached.
