---
reviewed: 2024-06-17 12:39:20
title: Collaboration intro
naviTitle: Collaboration intro
navigation.excerpt: Work with other developers and clients
lead: Map real world business requirements related to your hosting. Work with other developers, billing managers and clients.
figure:
  text: Collaborate on infrastructure just like you collaborate on code.

head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'collaboration, beginner, platform, teamwork, sharing, permissions, roles, organization, access, multi-client capability, multi tenancy, tenant, client, employees, developer, collaborator, administrator, platform design'
---

## An account is for personal access

Most people are running multiple apps on fortrabbit, commonly under different contexts (agency, private, client). The classical approach is to set up a new account for each project. Then the account is shared with colleagues and clients. That's hard to manage and not professional. The fortrabbit collaboration concepts are designed as a better alternative.

Sign up to fortrabbit as an individual, not a company. In fact the account is part of the [person object](/10.objects/3.person.md). Mind that your personal [public SSH keys](/15.tips/ssh-keys.md) are also stored with your account.

| Person      | Team                  | App               | Payment method        |
| ----------- | --------------------- | ----------------- | --------------------- |
| human being | a group of developers | website / web app | an object owning apps |
| active      | passive               | passive           | passive               |

Note that only people are actively interacting with the dashboard, anything else is an object to be accessed and controlled by people.

## Build for trust

The fortrabbit collaboration features are build to enable productive co-creation. The purpose is to connect people working together as developers and their business owners within the hosting platform. It's not about fine grained access control.

The collaboration features are a powerful sword aimed for professional usage. It's anticipated that you have trust and policies in place within the context of your real word relations and teams to avoid misusage and damage.

## Many to many relations

The fortrabbit collaboration features are designed without a lot of hierarchy. This enables to map many types of real world scenarios. You can have multiple apps, payment methods and teams connected to your personal account. Apps can be connected to multiple teams and solo developers. Payment methods also can be connected to multiple individuals and teams.

## Co-ownership

Apps are paid and thus owned by [payment methods](/10.objects/9.payment-method.md), not accounts. People with access on the payment method have billing control. Payment methods can be shared with developers, clients and teams. See the [billing collaboration article](/16.collaboration/3.billing-collaboration.md) for more.

## Use cases

- Solo developers working for clients directly
- Solo developers working for organizations
- Smaller organizations with a fixed team
- Bigger organizations with multiple teams

## Example workflows

- Invite clients and non-devs to take over billing
- Create teams to share apps with other developers
- Pass over app access from developer to developer

## Two levels of collaboration

There are two types of collaboration on the fortrabbit hosting platform:

- [Developer collaboration](/16.collaboration/2.developer-collaboration.md) - sharing technical aspects
- [Billing collaboration](/16.collaboration/3.billing-collaboration.md) - sharing billing access

This enables to share developer access to an app without sharing billing access at the same time. It's also the foundation to work with non-technical business owners (clients).

With teams it's practical that the unlimited members have combined control on developer access and billing access.

## Events

Every interaction with the fortrabbit services will be recorded and associated with you. In the dashboard those actions are shown as [events](/10.objects/events.md) and are important part of collaboration and help with accountability.
