---
reviewed:      2023-07-08 13:44:06
title:         Teamwork
excerpt:       Developer collaboration
lead:       What is a team on the fortrabbit hosting platform and how to effectively work with teams.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'beginner, platform, teamwork, sharing, roles, organization, access, tenant, client, employees'
---

TODO: this article merged team and team collaboration, remove duplicate content, maybe separate in multiple articles again.

Mind: Your [fortrabbit account](/account) represents YOU and is your personal login and path to access apps.

A team here on fortrabbit helps you to structure and manage team and billing aspects of your Apps.

```plain
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐  
│                Team                 │  
│                                     │          Accounts  
│      Apps         Billing Contacts  │       ┌──────────────┐
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  │  <——  │  {{owner1}}  │
│  │ {{app-one}} │  │ {{Billing1}} │  │       ├──────────────┤
│  ├─────────────┤  ├──────────────┤  │  <——  │  {{owner2}}  │
│  │ {{app-two}} │  │ {{Billing1}} │  │       ├──────────────┤
│  ├─────────────┤  └──────────────┘  │  <——  │  {{admin2}}  │
│  │{{app-three}}│                    │       ├──────────────┤
│  └─────────────┘                    │  <——  │  {{admin1}}  │
│                                     │       └──────────────┘
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

The above illustration shows how Companies, Apps, Accounts and Billing Contacts relate to each other:

* Each App is owned by a Company.
* A Company can have multiple Apps.
* A Company can have multiple team members.
* A Company also can have multiple Billing Contacts to pay for the Apps.
* Each App is associated with one Billing Contact of the Company.

## Managing Companies

Don't worry when this all sounds very complex at the beginning. We believe in graceful disclosure: Companies are virtually invisible and for all intends and purposes synonym to your Account when working alone - until you need them.

### Creating a Company

You can create as many Companies as you need — free of charge. In the the Dashboard > Your Account > Companies > "Create a Company" button. Following the guided create process, you will not only create a new Company, but also it's first Billing Contact. Once created, you will be the Owner of the new Company.

<div data-markdown="1" data-user="known">

* [Create a new Company](https://dashboard.fortrabbit.com/account/company/new)

</div>

### Deleting a Company

As an Owner you can also decide to delete your Company. This is a huge step, as all Apps owned by the Company will be deleted and all the team will loose access. To do so:

* In the Dashboard (Home) >
* Companies >
* {{ Your Company }} >
* Hit the **Delete Company** button and follow the instructions

Deleting a Comoany will not cancel your Account, [see dedicated instructions for that](/account#toc-deleting-an-account). When a Company has more than one Owner, you can also just leave it:

#### Leaving a Company

With Company collaboration (see below) you can also leave a Company. The Company with stay, but you will loose access. When you cancel your Account and you are part of a Company with other Owners left, you will leave the Company.

### Collaboration

There are two levels of collaboration

1. [App level collaboration](app-collaboration): Grant code access on a per-App basis
2. **[Company level collaboration](company-collaboration)**: Grant company-wide access to all Apps and the Companies themselves

Since collaboration can easily become rather complex, we also have [collaboration overview article](7.collaboration/1.intro.md), which shows you the big picture.

### Company plans

Creating a Company itself is free of any charges and it comes with a basic free Company plan by default. Company plans are booked on behalf of the Company and are available for the whole team. Higher Company plans coming are with better support levels and extended collaboration features:

* [See Company plan features](//www.fortrabbit.com/company-plans)

### Working with multiple Companies

Just like in real life, you can create or join any number of Companies with your Account. So one Account can own multiple Companies while also being involved in other Companies as Admins or even App level collaborators.

### Moving an App from one Company to another

In some cases you might want to move the App to a different Company. This will change billing AND team. Of course you first need to be at least Admin in two Companies.

### Changing the Company of an App

You can also change the ownership of Apps at any time. It starts with the App, find [more details on App ownership changing over there](/app#toc-changing-app-ownership).

## Problem

In the real world, you are working with a team. The members of this team have different functions in your company: Some are pure code developers, others take care of your accounting and others oversee your various projects.

## Solution

A [team](/team) within the fortrabbit dashboard represents your developer team, allowing you to map your business relations to fortrabbit. To name a few use cases:

* Designate a responsible technical contact to handle maintenance tasks, such as scaling and monitoring metrics
* Let your project managers handle their projects by themselves, by granting them rights to invite and manage developers
* Grant your accounting access to fortrabbit, so that they can download the invoices on their own

## Access roles

A unique quality of Company collaboration are the role based permissions. Delegation is the key motivation. Only with Company collaboration members with the according roles will get automatic access to newly created Apps and members with according rights can create Apps on behalf of the Company. Each Company can have multiple Accounts associated with it:

### Owner

The Owner role can NOT be modified by someone else, multiple Owners per Company are possible. Each Company must have at least one Owner. Accounts with this role within a Company can:

* create, delete, configure & scale all Apps of the Company
* access code of all Apps of the Company
* delete, create, change Billing Contacts for the Company
* manage all roles of the Company
* invite new Users for any role to the Company
* leave the Company (if other Owners are present)
* delete the Company

### Admin

The Admin role can be modified by Owners. Accounts with this role within a Company can:

* create, delete, configure & scale all Apps of the Company
* access code of all Apps of the Company
* manage all Admins and Collaborators of the Company
* invite new Admins or Collaborators to the Company
* leave the Company

### App Collaborator

The App Collaborator role can be modified by Owners and Admins. It's the same as with [App collaboration](app-collaboration) and has the same permissions. When any paid Company collaboration plan is booked, all Apps, including all Universal Apps, are granted unlimited App collaboratortion.

## Inviting a team member

* When logged in to the Dashboard, go to your Account, find "Invite a developer" or directly call: [dashboard.fortrabbit.com/users/invite](https://dashboard.fortrabbit.com/users/invite)
* If you are part of multiple Companies, you will be asked to choose the Company
* Enter name, e-mail and role
* Click "Send invitation"

## Advanced collaboration usage

Still reading? Cool go on to dive even deeper.

### Working with the same person in different teams

If you have multiple teams and you want to collaborate with same person on all or a subset of them: Just invite them to each team. The same person then will have access to all teams while logged in with their account.

### Promoting and demoting developers

Just like in real life the roles of accounts inside a team can change like so:

* Accounts can not downgrade themselves to another role
* Owners can promote Admins to become Owners

Role changes have immediate effect, they do not require another confirmation by the affected account.

#### Changing the role of a team member

If you are either Owner or Admin, you can promote and demote other people like so: Visit the team the developer is part of, click on 'change role'. This will open a form in which you can change the role.

### When developers leave

The developer who leaves a team will loose the ability to see and edit the apps in the dashboard and also will loose all personal code access.

There are two directions of leaving a team:

#### Active: A developer leaves a team

You might want to leave the team when the project you have collaborated on has ended or you are actually leaving the team in real live as well.

1. In the Dashboard go to > "Your account overview" > "Teams" > {{ Team name }}
2. Click the "Leave" button

You can not leave a team when you are the last Owner remaining. A team must have at least one owner.

#### Passive: An owner revokes team access for a developer

Let's say a project phase has ended, so that developer does not need have access any more.

##### How to revoke developer access

1. In the Dashboard > "Teams" > {{ Team overview }} > Under Collaborators
2. Click the role of the Account you would like to remove.
3. This will bring up a form in which you can revoke access.

#### Confirmation on cancellations

To make the process of leaving transparent, all

#### A note on security when people leave

Please mind that the person who has left still might have local code copies and thereby access to sensitive data like MySQL passwords. We advice to reset service passwords. Please see the [security article](/security) for more.
