---
reviewed: 2024-07-29 18:47:35
title: Running a headless Craft CMS on fortrabbit
naviTitle: Headless Craft
navigation.excerpt: Architectural choices to deploy Craft in GraphQL mode
lead: Craft can be used as a headless CMS. Here is how to on fortrabbit.
sidebar: craft-cms
nextNav: true
siblings: Craft CMS guides
head:
  meta:
    - name: keywords
      content: craft, craftCMS, setup, install-guide, hedless, react, next, nuxt, vue, GraphQL, SPA
---

## Intro

With Craft CMS headless mode you have a Craft CMS installation that consists only of the backend without any server-side Twig templates. In addition you create another application, usually with a JavaScript framework (Next, Nuxt, React, Vue …) that will fetch content using the built-in GraphQL API and render it on the client-side in the browser. See the [Craft CMS help on headless mode](https://craftcms.com/docs/getting-started-tutorial/more/graphql.html) for more.

## Headless hosting strategies

The backend and the frontend don't need to be connected at all. They will talk over the wire. Here are options for a hosting setup for Craft CMS headless mode:

### 1 - Backend at fortrabbit, frontend elsewhere

This is the more professional and officially propagated mode. The backend is hosted with a PHP server, in that case fortrabbit, while the frontend is hosted at a JAM Stack hosting service.

### 2 - Backend and frontend in one app at fortrabbit

It's also possible to have both systems run side by side in one app environment at fortrabbit. This has the benefit that the project code base can stay together (maybe in a mono repo) and does not have to be separated over two different hosting systems.

## Considerations

Craft CMS in headless mode is an interesting technology. It may offer some challenges for PHP developers who are not used to frontend development paradigms.

### Performance considerations

GraphQL is a powerful tool to query any content from the backend. It's also very easy to write query that do not perform well. Under certain configuration, specifically with larger data sets, this can lead to performance issues.

### SEO requirements

In many cases the frontend will be a single page application making AJAX requests to the Craft CMS GraphQL backend. To assure SEO compatibility, the pages will also need to be exported as static pages to be parsed by search engine bots. This can happen during the deployment build steps. Content changes in the CMS made by editors may also need to trigger re-generation of certain parts of the website.

### Headers

By default HTTP responses with content type `text/html`, `text/css` and `text/javascript` are gzipped. When you use Craft in headless mode as a GraphQL or REST API, the content type is application/json. In the article about [GZIP compression](/3.dev/6.htaccess/4.gzip.md) you learn how to enable it for other content types.
