---
reviewed: 2023-07-08 14:42:47
title:    HTTPS
excerpt:  HTTPS and TLS options on fortrabbit
lead:     TLDR; Free, zero-config TLS certificates for all domains are provided. Read on if you want to learn about advanced options.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'ssl, TLS, domain, subdomain, CA, Certificate Authority, port 443, port 80'
---

## HTTPS on fortrabbit

fortrabbit incorporates [Let's Encrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Let's_Encrypt) - a free to use certificate authority - for all [domains](/10.objects/10.domain.md). All external domains correctly routed will receive a TLS certificate, no configuration or extra setup required. The certs will also be renewed automatically.

## HTTPS options

The following practical tips on how to deal with HTTPS are applying to all TLS options on fortrabbit:

### Redirect all requests to HTTPS

It is recommended to forward all requests to the secure line, so no more "http://", only "http**s**://". You can do that with `.htaccess`, see [an example here](/14.tips/6.htaccess/2.redirects.md#redirect-all-requests-to-https).

### Secure your domain with a CAA record

A Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) is a DNS record to specify which certificate authorities (CAs) are allowed to issue certificates for a domain. It's an extra security layer, so that now one else can intercept any certificates by wrong authorities. There is no integration here on fortrabbit needed. See if your DNS / domain provider supports CAA entries, set the according identifying domain name. When you are using our free Let's Encrypt certs, see [this article](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/caa/) on how to set it up. Mind that already existing CAA entries can also become a problem when trying to issue new certificates.

## About HTTPS, TLS & SSL

`HTTPS` is **H**yper **T**ext **T**ransfer **P**rotocol over Transport Layer **S**ecurity. It is used to secure the data transport between a client (browser) and a server. HTTPS is based on **TLS** (Transport Layer Security), which is the successor to the still better known **SSL** (Secure Sockets Layer). HTTPS is considered a standard must have for each website. Browsers show a lock in the address bar if the connection is over HTTPS.

## Troubleshooting HTTPS

[Here](/14.tips/https-troubleshooting.md) are some things you can do on your own.
