---

reviewed:      2022-03-21 17:34:15
title:         Quirks
excerpt:       Limits, restrictions, permissions
lead:          "Limits, restrictions, permissions — aren't there always some? Heads up so it doesn't cost you hours of researching in the wrong direction."

---

<!-- TODO: Review and rewrite, ƒrank 2023-08-16 08:59:32 -->

## Service scope

Apps are lightweight containers optimized for speedy web delivery of PHP applications. Apps are specialized to do just that. Apps are single-purpose by design. Apps are also managed.

* [Learn more about Apps](/app)
* [Learn about the differences to VPS hosting](https://www.fortrabbit.com/why-not-vps)

## No 1-click installers

When creating an App we ask for the desired software you are about to use. This can be Laravel, Craft CMS, WordPress or alike. **That will not install the software for you.** Please don't expect one-click-installers here. This is self service PHP hosting for professional developers. We believe in a clear separation of concerns where you will take care of the code you'll write and use and where we will manage the infrastructure. We also expect you to have a local development environment, see [the local dev article](/local-development).

* Read more more about the [Software Preset here](/12.platform/software-presets.md).
* Our [support policy](https://www.fortrabbit.com/support-policy) outlines service scope as well

## No root shell

Professional Apps only have [remote SSH execution](/remote-ssh-execution-pro). [Universal Apps](/app-uni) come with an SSH environment, but that is not a root shell, it's "jailed". So you can use it for deployment and for common tasks around development. Therefore, it's NOT possible to install software like: FFmpeg, Node, NPM, Gulp, webpack, ruby, Rails or mailserver.

We do this for security and performance reasons. Embrace the idea of decoupled services, don't let your users wait, while your application is crunching a video or some images. Consider using an alternative or a third party service.

The Pro Stack has the [Worker Component](/worker-pro) to have CPU intensive long running tasks run in the background, but again only for software you can install via Composer.

### Need to call via php interpreter

To launch a PHP script you need to specify the PHP interpreter explicitly: for example, `php artisan` or `php craft`.

## No image optimization tools

Tools like `jpegoptim`, `optipng`, `pngquant`, `SVGO`, `gifsicle` and alike can help to reduce file size of your images. Using such tools are considered a best practice today. Unfortunately they consume a lot of CPU time and memory. fortrabbit Apps are build for fast short running light processes, not heavy lifting. Consider using a third party service for this.

## No video compressing

`ffmpeg` and `ffprobe` alike are also not available to avoid overuse of resources.

### wkhtmltopdf

wkhtmltopdf is a popular library to convert HTML to PDF. It's NOT installed and you can not install it on your own for the reasons named above. Check out the following alternatives:

* [dompdf](https://github.com/dompdf/dompdf) is a PHP only PDF by CSS renderer
* Use PDF as a service like [cloudconvert](https://cloudconvert.com/) or [others](https://stackoverflow.com/a/5344424/1449386)
* Rethink if you really need PDF? An invoice in HTML is sometimes ok too
* Consider PDF creation on the client side with JS in the browser, with [jsPDF](https://parall.ax/products/jspdf) or similar

### Performance

Apps are designed for fast web delivery — to answer page requests swiftly. Unlike a VPS, which is a multi-purpose box, Apps are single-purpose for web delivery. Installing CPU intensive software would hurt the performance.

* [Learn about the resource limits here](/limits)

### Security

We believe in a clear division of security. In a nutshell: We - fortrabbit - take care of the Operarting System level and the PHP runtime, you - the developer - are responsible for the software you write and use. Installing additional software would blur that strict division.

* [Learn about the security concepts here](https://www.fortrabbit.com/security)

## Service location

Data center locations are available in Ireland (AWS EU-1) and Virginia / USA (AWS US-EAST-1). A data center can be chosen for each App individually, but can't be changed later on. The service is available in Euro (€) or US Dollars ($): This can be chosen with each [Billing Contact](/billing-contact). The fortrabbit headquarters is based in Berlin, time zone is: CET.

## Mailing

Sendmail — the Mail Transfer Agent — is not available on fortrabbit.

In PHP Sendmail is usually used with the `mail()` function. Back in the good ol' days, this would simply call the shell command `sendmail` from the shell to send a mail directly from the web server to the receiving mail server.

In recent days, this is a really bad practice: your web server can send mails, but not receive any - it is not a mail server. So it is not distinguishable from any home PC part of a bot net. Long story short: it is very likely that your mail will not be received.

### Direct SMTP

There is no mailing built-in here. Instead of `sendmail` you can use a mail script that uses SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) via your e-mail provider - usually the one that provides your domain - directly.

There are countless possibilities how to use SMTP. Most frameworks and CMS give them to you out of the box. If you use a custom script, have a look at [Swift Mailer](https://swiftmailer.symfony.com/). There are special solutions for [WordPress](../install-wordpress#smtp), [Laravel](../install-laravel#smtp) & [Symfony](../install-symfony#smtp).

Pro tip: In Gmail you need to allow "less secure apps" to connect. See the [official Google help](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/6010255).

A better solution might be to use a "transactional mail service", those are built to do the bulk mailing — see [extending fortrabbit](/#extending-fortrabbit). You can either connect to them via "SMTP relay" or by "API". Those services help you to save your App's resources, are probably more reliable and have some nice extra features like analytics and debugging.

### Sending transactional mails from an environment URL

Some clients asked how to setup TXT records for environment URLs. They have the idea of sending mails over a transactional mail service from the App URL, for testing or even for production.

And it is probably not what you want. At the end of the day, you want your mails to be sent from own domain. Transactional mail providers need to take extra care that you are not a spammer, as they give very powerful tools. Our generic App URLs do NOT look good from their point of view. For the App URL there isn't an MX record. So that sub-domain looks suspicious to any mail-server.

We are using postmark app. It should work the same as mailgun or any other transactional mail provider. We have configured and verified our prime domain to be used with the service. Now, our dev and staging environments are also using the "real thing", but they are configured (in our code base) so that they are sending all mails to `info@fortrabbit.com` (instead of what is entered by the testers).

How other users are testing mails: some clients are using mailtrap to test mails. I have no experience, but as far as I know, it's easy to setup and use.

## PHP

### PATH_INFO

Our runtime implements PHP via FastCGI + FPM. To utilize `PATH_INFO` you need to do a small hack-around in your `.htaccess` file:

```
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} \.php/ [NC]
RewriteRule ^(.+)\.php/(.+)$    /$1.php [NC,L,QSA,E=PATH_INFO:/$2]
```

### Authorization header

If you need the `Authorization` header, for OAuth for example, you have to forward the header explicitly via an ENV variable:

```
RewriteCond %{HTTP:Authorization} .
RewriteRule .* - [E=HTTP_AUTHORIZATION:%{HTTP:Authorization}]
```

## Outgoing IP address

In some cases you need to know your app environment's IP address, like for payment processing or in environments that are behind a firewall. The IP address of app environments is not guaranteed to be persistent. Although it will most probably not change during the lifetime of an App. You can see this for yourself with a PHP script. Querying an HTTP service like that from an App is the easiest way to determine the current IP address.

```php
<?php
echo file_get_contents("https://ifconfig.co/");
```

Depending on your needs, it is possible to use an HTTP proxy provider like [QuoteGuard](https://www.quotaguard.com/) to get a static IP address. Finally, there is also the [official list of AWS IP ranges](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-ip-ranges.html) and the same list in [JSON](https://ip-ranges.amazonaws.com/ip-ranges.json) format.

## What this isn't

Embrace the idea of decoupled services! We don't offer some classical hosting providers standards such as:

* Plesk, cPanel, ISPconfig, any classical hosting control panel
* e-mail hosting, e-mail address configuration
* any WebMail, so no RoundCube or SquirrelMail
* Domain ordering, top level domain registration services
* pre-installed phpMyAdmin, phpBB, Wikis …
* one-click installers

Our advice to you, the professional developer: consider abandoning your all-in-one old school hosting.
