---
reviewed: 2024-08-08 17:20:02
title: Invite someone for billing
naviTitle: Invite a client
navigation.excerpt: Give someone access to a payment method
lead: Two ways to share billing access with another person with fortrabbit.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'beginner, platform, teamwork, sharing, roles, access, security, mfa, 2fa, solopreneurs'
links:
  - title: Billing collaboration
    route: /platform/collaboration/billing-collaboration
  - title: About payment methods
    route: /platform/objects/payment-method
  - title: Invite to payment method
    route: /platform/how-to/invite-to-payment-method
---

<!-- TODO: Review for redundant details -->

## Get ready

Understand the [collaboration concepts](//16.collaboration/1.intro.md) on fortrabbit. Most importantly note, your personal access to fortrabbit should not be shared.

## Billing sharing concepts

The billing collaboration features are aimed to support separation of concerns. fortrabbit is responsible to keep the hosting service up and running. Developers need to make the code run optimally. Billing managers and clients need to take care of payments. Some people are developers and billing managers at the same time.

## A - Invite someone to create a new payment method

This flow is often used by developers to invite their client to take over hosting costs. The invited person will have to create a new payment method to take over certain apps.

1. Login to the fortrabbit dashboard
2. Click on "Manage" > "Invite someone to taker over billing"
3. Follow the steps to send an invitation
   1. Choose which apps you'd like to transfer
   2. Choose how you would like to have access in the future
4. They will receive a payment request by e-mail
5. They will sign-up or login
6. They will need to create a new payment method to take over hosting costs

:BlockLink{title="Invite someone to take over hosting costs" path="/invite/payment-method-create/"}

## B - Invite someone to an existing payment method

This is often used by developers in digital agencies to invite the boss or someone from the billing department. The invited person will have access on the payment method to change the payment type and download invoices.

1. Login to the fortrabbit dashboard
2. Click on "Manage" > "Invite someone to a payment method"
3. Follow the steps to send an invitation
4. They will receive a payment request by e-mail
5. They will sign-up or login
6. They will have access on the payment method

:BlockLink{title="Invite someone to a payment method" path="/invite/person-payment-method/"}

## Details

- The invited person can choose their [account type](//16.collaboration/1.intro.md#developers-and-clients): client or developer.
- Invitations work with apps in [trial mode](/1.platform/11.concepts/2.free-trial.md).
