---
reviewed: 2024-07-19 18:10:09
title: Invite to take over billing
naviTitle: Invite to take over billing
navigation.excerpt: Invite someone to take over billing for apps.
lead: Invite someone to take over billing and transfer the payment method of an app - works for trial apps too.
links:
  - title: Developer collaboration
    route: /platform/collaboration/developer-collaboration
  - title: Billing collaboration
    route: /platform/collaboration/billing-collaboration
---

## Get ready

Understand that an account at fortrabbit represents a person. [Apps](/1.platform/10.objects/1.app.md) are owned by [payment methods](/1.platform/10.objects/9.payment-method.md), which are objects that are controlled by [people](/1.platform/10.objects/3.person.md). See [billing collaboration](/1.platform/16.collaboration/3.billing-collaboration.md) for the concepts.

## Use cases

Use the 'invite to pay' flow to invite your client or the new owner to pay for the apps.

- A freelancer developer invites his client
- The owner of a project is changing

In most cases the invited person is a non technical business owner and thus will choose to become a client, see [account types](/1.platform/16.collaboration/7.account-types.md), to not be bothered with developer topics.

### Designed for freelancers and their clients

With the invite to pay flow you will pass on control of ownership. You will not have a [billing connection](/1.platform/16.collaboration/5.billing-connection.md) to the apps after any more. This is by design. The invite to pay flow specifically supports freelancers working with their clients. Freelancing developers should not be responsible for the hosting.

## How it works

This describes the app invite flow from both sides:

### On the inviter side

1. You need to have an [app](/1.platform/10.objects/1.app.md) already, this can be a trial app
2. In the dashboard, find the link
3. Select the apps you like them to pay
4. Enter the email address of payee

:BlockLink{title="invite to pay" path="/new/invite/pay"}

### On the invited side

1. Receive an email with an invite link
2. Login to fortrabbit or create a new account for this
3. Accept the invite and follow the steps to create or choose a new payment method for the apps

### Consequences

- The inviter will loose their [billing connection](/1.platform/16.collaboration/5.developer-connection.md) to the app
- The inviter will keep the [developer connection](/1.platform/16.collaboration/5.developer-connection.md)
- The invited account is in power to delete the app or assign other developers
- All interactions are recorded as [events](/1.platform/10.objects/events.md)

## Alternatives

This flow is specifically made to transfer payment for apps. You can also invite someone to a [payment method](/1.platform/16.collaboration/11.payment-method-invite.md) that already exists.
