---
title:        PHP
navigation.excerpt:      Computing power for PHP processes
sidebar:      php
lead:         Scalable computing power for PHP websites and web applications of all sizes.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'app-design, php, php processes, FPM'
---

## Booking PHP

Choose the PHP component plan while creating a new [app](/10.objects/1.app.md) or a new environment. For an existing app environment you can visit the components page to change the PHP plan.

## Configuring PHP

Find PHP related setting pages with each of your [app environments](/10.objects/2.app-environment.md) in the dashboard. Here you can switch the PHP version and configure various PHP extensions and settings. There are also metrics and PHP related logs.

## Scaling PHP

PHP plans differ mostly in the available memory, as well as the number of PHP processes (see [here](/14.tips/php-processes.md) for more).

Start small, scale later. Test and experiment with different scaling settings. Usually you will not need to change it over time. Keep an eye on memory and swap metrics in the dashboard.

### Autoscaling

Autoscaling for PHP is not available. This is because of the flaky nature of PHP processing time going up and down and different customer requirements.

### Shared plans

These are the most commonly used plans. Indeed the XS and the S plan are covering most normal website scenarios already. Some software systems have system requirements. The values below are good starting points from our experience:

| Software                         | PHP memory |
| -------------------------------- | ---------: |
| Craft CMS, October CMS           |     512 MB |
| WordPress, Kirby, Grav, Statamic |     256 MB |

The actual memory requirements are highly individual. It depends on the number of visitors, plugins and configuration and the custom code you write. See our [performance design article](/14.tips/performance-design.md) for more.

## Dedicated plans

Higher plans are available for heavy users and e-commerce systems.
