---
title: MySQL
navigation.excerpt: Database resources and storage
sidebar: mysql
lead: Scalable database resources for websites and web applications of all sizes.
siblings: Components
links:
  - title: MySQL intro
    route: /mysql/intro
    property: docs
  - title: MySQL access
    route: /mysql/access
    property: docs
  - title: MySQL export/import
    route: /mysql/export-import
    property: docs
  - title: MySQL advanced topics
    route: /mysql/advanced
    property: docs
  - title: MySQL performance tips
    route: /mysql/performance
    property: docs
  - title: MySQL troubleshooting
    route: /mysql/troubleshooting
    property: docs
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'mysql, database, innodb, myisam, heidisql, tunnel, nosql, RDS'
---

## Booking MySQL

MySQL is as an optional component available in different plans. Each [app environment](/10.objects/2.app-environment.md) can have one MySQL component containing one database booked. The database can have multiple tables of course.

## Configuring MySQL

When MySQL is enabled, multiple settings and metrics become available in the dashboard. Please refer to the [MySQL section](/8.mysql/index.md) to learn more.

## Scaling MySQL

MySQL plans differ mostly in the available storage, as well as the associated computing power. Usually MySQL and [PHP](/9.components/1.php.md) are scaled alongside since they rely on each other. Start small, scale on demand.

### MySQL OFF

MySQL is optional on fortrabbit. Your application may not require MySQL at all. [Kirby](/5.guides/6.kirby.md), [Statamic](/4.statamic/index.md) and [Grav](/5.guides/7.grav.md) as static file systems are not requiring MySQL in the basic setup at all. Or maybe you run a [Laravel](/2.laravel/index.md) application that only consumes a third party API or uses [Redis](8.redis.md). Please refer to the software requirements of your CMS or framework.

### Shared plans

These are the most commonly used plans. Indeed the XS and the S plan are covering most normal website scenarios already. You can store a lot of text in 256 MB.

### Dedicated plans

Higher plans are available for heavy users and large databases.

### Autoscaling

MySQL has an autoscaling option. When turned on the next tier will be booked, once the storage limit is reached.

### Backups

MySQL plans do not offer backups. But those are available as an extra [backup component](5.backups.md).
