---

reviewed:     2023-02-15 08:20:02
title:        Crons
excerpt:      Scripts to run at scheduled times
lead:         Use time scheduled cron jobs to execute periodic background tasks. Crons run at defined times, independent of visits to the web application.
sidebar:      crons
structureNav: true

---

<!-- TODO: Review and make shorter and match new platform -->

## Booking crons

Crons are available as an optional [component](/9.components/index.md) available per environment in different plans.

## Scaling crons

TODO

## Configuring crons

TODO

## Using crons

**Database maintenance**: say the web application cumulates data which needs to be transformed and/or wiped periodically. A cron cob allows you to make sure the `app/console db:cleanup` - or whatever - script executes hourly, daily, weekly or whenever your want.

**Cache clearing**: say the web application has a news site, which homepage must be rebuilt every ten minutes or so. With a cron job you can schedule a cleanup of the homepage.

## Usage

You can configure cron job in the dashboard. To start a new cron job you'll need the set the following parameters:

### Name

A unique name, so the job can be identified later on in the logs or statistics.

### Command

The PHP command which shall be executed, eg `app/console db:cleanup` or `path/to/my-script.php`

### Interval

The interval at which you want to execute the job. The interval length is guaranteed.

## Logging

All output generated by cron jobs can be accessed via logging.

## Limits

* Crons on fortrabbit are managed in the dashboard, not via SSH
* Cron scripts can run for maximum 12 hours, then it will be killed
* Each time the cron triggers, a new copy of the cron script is started
* When 5 scripts are running at the same time, no more will start until another exits
