---
reviewed:  2023-07-08 13:59:28
title:     Laravel setup
naviTitle: Setup
excerpt:   Configure your local installation
lead:      Learn how to prepare your local Laravel installation for fortrabbit.
sidebar:   laravel
showNext:  true
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'laravel'
---

## Get ready

Make sure to have a [local development environment](/11.dev-tips/2.local-development.md) up and running. Use the detailed [official Laravel install guide](https://laravel.com/docs/installation) as your guideline to install Laravel on your local machine first. Here is the gist:

```bash
# Use Composer to create a local Laravel project (named like your app)
composer create-project laravel/laravel --prefer-dist {{ app-name }}
```

Most people will however want to use an existing code base to be deployed to your app at fortrabbit. In some cases Laravel is the framework for the actual software that runs on top - like with [Statamic](/4.statamic/1.setup.md) or [October CMS](/5.guides/6.october.md).

## Create an app at fortrabbit

If you not have already, hop over to the fortrabbit dashboard and create an app as the public runtime instance for your upcoming Laravel project. The wizard will guide you through the steps. Choose Laravel as your [software preset](/12.platform/software-presets.md).

:DashboardLink{text="Create a new app" path="/new/app"}

## MySQL configuration

Not all Laravel projects require a database connection.

If you have chosen Laravel in the [software preset](/12.platform/software-presets.md) when creating your App, we will automatically populate the "right" environment variables for the MySQL connection. So **you don't need to set anything**! Just keep `config/database.php` as it is.

The all CAPITAL configs in the `config/database.php` file will be replaced by the contents of the environment variables. For your local development setup you can populate the `.env` file with your local database credentials. See our [ENV var article](/12.platform/env-vars.md) as well.
