---
reviewed:  2023-08-17 08:28:07
title:     Laravel deployment
naviTitle: Deployment
navigation.excerpt:   GitHub, SSH, rsync or even SFTP
lead:      Setup automatic deployment for your Laravel application hosted on fortrabbit.
sidebar:   laravel
nextNav:  true
structureNav: true
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'laravel, livewire, october, statamic, winterCMS, TypiCMS, Lavalite, Twill, VaahCMS, BoomCMS, Aloia CMS'
---

## Get ready

1. Have a [local development environment](/14.tips/local-development.md) running
2. Follow our [setup steps](/2.laravel/1.setup.md) to install Laravel locally
3. Know about [fortrabbit deployment features](/6.deployment/1.intro.md)
4. Install the [fortrabbit GitHub app](/6.deployment/2.github-app.md) with your GitHub account

With the fortrabbit dashboard:

1. Create an app or choose an existing one
2. Connect an app environment with a branch of a GitHub repo

## Recommended Laravel build steps

Laravel offers various ways to make use of it. It can act as a backend to exchange with a frontend or it can be used as a monolith. It might be extended with additional software. Therefore [deployment build step pipeline](/6.deployment/3.build-commands.md) options differ. Configure the build steps in the fortrabbit dashboard. These are commonly used:

### Composer build step

In almost all cases you will want to run Composer during deployment for Laravel based applications, see also [Composer on fortrabbit](/14.tips/composer.md).

```shell
composer install
```

### NPM build step

[Vite](https://vitejs.dev) is the default asset bundler for Laravel. For more details on using Vite, see [Laravel's docs](https://laravel.com/docs/vite).

```shell
npm run build
```

This will compile the assets and place them in a `build` folder in the `public` directory. This folder is by default excluded from the repo in `.gitignore`.

### Migration build step

If you are using a database, you likely will want to run database migrations after you have deployed. We advice to ad this to run:

```shell
php artisan migrate --force
```

## Mostly done

Now you should have setup an automatic deployment pipeline that will listen to changes on your GitHub repo branch and deploy these automatically, running the configured build steps.

## Database syncing

Laravel applications with databases may require content syncing from your local development to the app environment or the other way around. Please visit our [MySQl import/export article](/8.mysql/3.export-import.md) for that.

## Additional workflows

The fortrabbit platform is not limited to GitHub deployment. Your application might has runtime data such as uploaded assets that require syncing. Have a look at our [deployment features in 'Code VS Content'](/6.deployment/1.intro.md#code-vs-content) for options and concepts.
