---
reviewed:    2023-07-26 07:40:18
title:       Troubleshooting domain and DNS issues
naviTitle:   Troubleshooting
excerpt:     Troubleshooting DNS issues
lead:        'DNS is hard. This article aims to help you - the developer - solving common problems when connecting a domain to your fortrabbit App.'
---

## Using the dashboard as a guidance

When visiting your domain within the dashboard, you'll see two tables: On the left you see the desired settings of the domain. On the right, you'll see the current, actual settings.

In general — when not using an external DNS service like Cloudflare — those two settings should match. The left and the right side should be the same.

## No DNS settings

Depending on your browser you might see a _DNS_PROBE_FINISHED_NXDOMAIN_ or _This site can't be reached_ or _This webpage is not available_ error. In such cases, it is likely that the domain is not registered or there are no DNS settings for that domain. You can verify that with the [dig command](/11.dev-tips/dig.md). You need to fix that with your domain provider.

## Time delays

Many DNS providers default the TTL (Time To Live) of all records to 24 hours. This means that all changes will be applied with a delay of up to 24 hours, because everybody who has looked up the domain caches the result for the TTL duration. Also the TTL is not guaranteed: One badly programmed router on the way, who ignores the TTL or imposes its own minimal TTL, can change the TTL for everybody "behind it". The caching itself is actually a good thing as it helps to reduce round trips. Some providers let you set down the TTL, which is very useful when moving or changing domains.
