---
reviewed: 2024-01-25 20:50:49
title: ENV vars intro
naviTitle: Intro
navigation.excerpt: About environment variables
lead: ENV vars help to create and shape the environment of where the code runs.
siblings: ENV vars
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'ENV vars, Environment variables, php, beginner, phpdotenv, dotenv'
---

## Problem

You most likely run at least two environments for your app: a [local one for development](/15.tips/1.local-development.md) and one on fortrabbit for production. Both instances probably have access to a database, but your local MySQL credentials will differ from the remote ones. Your `config.php` file is under Git version control, so how do you manage different environment-specific configurations, from database credentials to API keys? Additionally, how do you work in a team where everyone has their own local settings? How do you separate code from configuration to ensure portability and keep secrets secure?

## Solution

Store everything specific to the environment in environment variables, or 'ENV vars' for short. An ENV var is a key-value pair, like so: `MY_SQL_PASS=sCRAmblEDegGGs`. The concept of ENV vars is widely used across different software systems, including Apache, Node.js, and PHP. Accessing ENV vars from PHP is straightforward, and it is a commonly accepted best practice to use them for configuration management.

### Benefits

- **Security**: Store sensitive information like database credentials and API keys outside of your codebase. See [ENV var security](/19.env-vars/20.security.md).
- **Portability**: Code can run in different environments without modification. Allow each team member to have their own local settings without affecting the shared codebase.
- **Separation**: Keep code and configuration apart.
