---
reviewed:      2023-08-08 08:44:49
naviTitle:     App
title:         App
excerpt:       Grouping environments and collaboration
lead:          Apps are grouping environments together and are the main subject of collaboration.
---

## Creating an app

Start a new app with the fortrabbit dashboard. The wizard will walk you through setting up the app, including plans and pricing, collaboration, software preset, data center location and git deployment.

:DashboardLink{title="Create an app" path="/new/app/"}

## Apps and environments

[Each app represents one website](/14.concepts/one-website-per-app.md) or web application. Think about an app like a git repo. In fact you can link a Git repo to an app. Each app has one ore more [environments](/13.objects/2.app-environment.md). Think about environments as git branches containing all data and runtime settings.

## Collaboration

The app is the main [collaboration](/11.collaboration/1.intro.md) object. Developers can be added and removed from apps. The app can be moved from one [payment method](/13.objects/9.payment-method.md) to another.

## Billing

Apps are owned by [payment methods](/13.objects/9.payment-method.md) and managed by developers. Read more about [billing collaboration](/11.collaboration/6.billing-collaboration.md).

## Deleting an app

You can always delete Apps you have access on. To delete an app, visit the app in the dashboard, find and hit the "delete" button. The app will then get deleted within a couple of minutes - this includes all files and the database and is irreversible.

:DashboardLink{title="Delete an app" path="/manage/app-delete/"}

## The app name

While creating the app you can choose a name that is easy for you to identify your project. The app name must be URL friendly (lowercase, no special chars, no spaces). It is used in many instances. You will also find that App name on your invoices.

### Changing the app name

Please note, that it is not possible to change the app name later on for technical reasons — cool URLs don't change, anyways. The app name is only an identifier to login and for development. If you are really desperate for your own vanity app name: delete your current app and start a new one, this time using the desired app name. Apps are designed to be disposable, so deploying everything again shouldn't take too long.

#### Changing app ownership

1. Go to the App in the Dashboard
2. Click the "Change ownership" button
3. Choose a different Company (and Billing Contact)

The `Change ownership` button, linked from your App overview is a very powerful tool. You can move the App to a different [Company](/company) or [Billing Contact](/billing-contact) you have access to. That means, you can assign the App to a different team, and/or to be billed from a different [Billing Contact](/billing-contact).

This action can only be done by [Accounts](/account) who have Owner or Admin privileges on at least two [Companies](/company) or one Company with two [Billing Contacts](/billing-contact). In other words, you need to have something first, to change it to. Also the App must be paid, not in trial mode.

The App will be billed on the old Billing Contact until that day of change and from the next day on to the new Billing Contact. For example: If you move your App on the 15th of a month to the Billing Contact of another Company, it will be billed to the old Billing Contact until the 15th and to the new Billing Contact starting from the 16th.
