---
reviewed: 2023-08-09 08:02:02
title: The domain object
naviTitle: Domain
excerpt: Environment URL and external domains
lead: Each fortrabbit app environment has an environment URL. Additionally you can route any number of external domains.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'TLD, Top Level Domain, top-level-domain, registration, ordering, zone apex, apex domain, root domain, subdomain, domain masking, domain name server, DNS, ns, lookup'
---

## Environment URL

Each [app environment](/13.objects/2.app-environment.md) has a unique public environment URL assigned that is constructed like `{{app-name}}-{{environment-id}}.frbit.app`. Use it during development, testing or [multi staging](/14.tips/multi-staging.md). Look up the actual name for your environment URL with the [dashboard](/14.concepts/dashboard.md) under the app environment overview.

## External domain

fortrabbit does not provide domain registration services. An "external domain" is a domain registered with a third party domain name registrar. You can connect an external domain with an app environment.

## Connect an external domain

First, add a new domain with the fortrabbit dashboard. You will need to choose an app environment as target and some set some additional configuration.

:DashboardLink{title="Add a new domain" path="/new/domain"}

At the end of the process you will be shown DNS entries to be configured for the domain. Login to your domain provider and populate the DNS settings as provided by fortrabbit. It can take a while until the new DNS settings will propagated. See our [DNS troubleshooting guide](/14.tips/dns-troubleshooting.md) if it is stuck.

## Main domain

One of

You can change it so that links from the dashboard and the thumbnail preview generation will use a custom domain of yours. We also use the default domain for various internal monitoring services.

Per default your environment URL is the "main domain".

### Changing the main domain

To change the default domain: In the Dashboard go to your App > Domains. There click on the star icon beside the domain name in the list.

:DashboardLink{title="Change the main domain TODO" path="/environments/{envId}/settings/main-domain"}

## Domain forwarding

## Using HTTPS via Let's Encrypt

Domains on fortrabbit can be accessed via `HTTP` and `HTTPS`. Please see the [HTTPS article](/14.tips/https-troubleshooting.md) for information on secured connections and SSL certificates.

## Root path settings

A root path is a folder in the [file system](/14.concepts/directories.md) of the [app environment](/13.objects/2.app-environment.md) where a domain will end. The root path is saved with the app environment for all it's domains. That means, no interface is offered to configure individual root paths per domain. You can however configure custom routing of domains in your code and config, either by .htaccess rules or by some routing options with your software.

## Multiple domains per app environment

There are some reasons why you might want to point more than one domain to your fortrabbit App:

## Multiple websites in your app environment

You probably want to host more than one website on your App like so:

1. `your-first-domain.com` resolves to `htdocs/your-first-domain/public`
2. `your-other-domain.com` resolves to `htdocs/your-other-domain/public`

We recommend not to do that, see our [one website per app article](/14.concepts/one-website-per-app.md).

## Choosing a domain provider

Please see our [domain provider article](/14.tips/domain-providers.md) what you may want to look for when choosing a domain provider to be used in combination with fortrabbit.

## Wildcard domains

Wildcard domains are currently not supported at fortrabbit. Please file a support ticket to describe your use case.

## Configuring your domain for e-mail

So far we have covered how to route a domain to fortrabbit. To receive and send e-mails from your domain you will configure the MX record of your domain. Please see your e-mail hosting provider for instructions.
