---
reviewed:  2023-08-08 07:57:37
title:     The person object
naviTitle: Person
excerpt:   Your private access to fortrabbit
lead:      A person represents a human being, who can actively manage and access fortrabbit services. Usage is free of charge.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'beginner, platform, teamwork, sharing, roles, access, security, mfa, 2fa'
---

## A person is not a group

It's common in classical hosting to have one account shared with a group of developers. fortrabbit features [multi-tenant collaboration](/11.collaboration/1.intro.md). Please sign up with `firstname.lastname@company.com` and not `devops@company.com` — it's much better that way.

## Developers and clients

There are two types of people with the fortrabbit dashboard. You can choose your type when signing up and change it later on. A client is non technical person only managing to billing.  A developer is a person with tech skills managing hosting, and maybe billing.

## Your events

Every interaction with the fortrabbit dashboard and services will be recorded and associated with you. In the dashboard those actions are shown as [events](/13.objects/events.md) and are important part of collaboration and help with accountability.

## Account settings

The account settings are part of the person and refer to your user registration at fortrabbit. By signing up you create a personal account. This is how you login and use the services. This is also how [delete your personal access](/14.concepts/service-cancellation.md).

## Code access

Developers can add their public SSH keys for direct private code access. See the [SSH keys](/12.dev-tips/8.ssh-keys.md) section for more.

## GitHub app

To enable git deployment from GitHub, developers need to install the [fortrabbit GitHub app](/6.deployment/3.github-app.md) with their personal GitHub account.

## Shared profile

You can edit your shared profile in the dashboard. The shared profile is a limited read only version of you. This is how your collaborating developers or clients will see you.
