---
reviewed: 2023-07-22
title: Access recovery
naviTitle: Access recovery
navigation.excerpt: Get help regaining access to fortrabbit
lead: You might have completely lost access to your Account. Or someone left your organization who has had an account forgot to transfer access when offboarding. This article aims to help you.
---

## Dashboard access method

TODO write about

- GitHub
- Password
- Passkey

## When you have access to the mail that has been used

When you know the e-mail that has been used for the account here and you have access to it proceed by resetting the Account password. This way you regain access and set a new password so that only you can login.

## When you don't know the e-mail or you don't have access to that mail

Sometimes we get contacted by someone claiming to be owner of a business with websites hosted here on fortrabbit. This can be an attempt of social engineering. Therefore we will need to carefully check such requests:

## Proof of ownership

Tell us details that only you — the legit owner of the business — can know. More is better:

- last two digits of the current credit card in use
- a previous invoice number
- amount of the last invoice
- name of your Apps hosted here
- links to LinkedIn profiles
- details from conversations we have had in support
- a funny commit message you can recall
- a detail or a comment in the code
- names and e-mail addresses of other team members
- tell us the whole story why you don't have access any more
- plus anything else that helps us identifying you as the real owner

## Deletion of abandoned Accounts

We delete old and neglected Accounts when all of the following attributes are given:

- no login to our Dashboard for a long time
- no access to any Company any more
- no active Apps running

We think that is in the best interest of our users for privacy and security. It's easy to sign up again at any time later. We might not inform the Account about an upcoming auto-delete.
