---
reviewed: 2023-07-30 10:32:38
title: Frequently asked in support
naviTitle: FAQ
---

## How can I open a ticket?

See [here](/20.get-help/2.contact-us.md).

## When will I get an answer?

We will answer as soon as possible. The median response time has been around 50 minutes, historically. The median time to close was around 4 hours. That means that, sometimes we chat, sometimes answers are delayed.

## Can you help me migration my websites over?

We don't provide assisted migration from third party service, because fortrabbit is a self-service aimed at developers. Unless you have the necessary skills to deploy and maintain a website, you will need a developer to handle your website on fortrabbit. However, we are always happy to help with specific technical questions on the matter. There is also a detailed [migration guide](/18.tips/migrate-to-fortrabbit.md) which you may find useful.Doing the migration on your own helps you understanding how deployment works here.

## What if I have an urgent question?

The scope of our support covers primarily helping with deployment of the code and configuring your Apps. Mind that we are also monitoring our systems for general issues. The few urgent cases we do see are usually connected to human errors when clients accidentally mess up or delete things. We have priority criteria policies, meaning that urgent and important cases will be answered first.

## What if we will have a traffic spike event?

We might be able to prepare that with you. Please let us know a few days in advance.

## What if I miss the answer?

That usually doesn't happen. You will get the answer by e-mail, when you are away. You can also answer on that e-mail or jump back into chat at any time. It works really well.

## Do you offer premium support?

No.

## Can I have telephone support?

Sorry, no telephone support hotline here. fortrabbit limits the general support to online communication. It allows us to keep the pricing down, while maintaining a feature-rich application. It also helps us gathering details and other information for effective troubleshooting. A lot of our support involves pointing to relevant help articles, we feel this is easier to do in written form. The support cases are often technical in nature, requiring escalation to 2nd level support. We rely on the conversation prior to escalation to provide the basis for further troubleshooting and support.

## Do you offer 24/7 support?

We don't offer 24/7 support, please see above to understand why.

## Where can I send feedback?

We like to hear your ideas! You can submit feedback via the same support bubble on our website.

## Can you support me with that obscure software I am using?

Perhaps not, please see our [software support levels document](/14.concepts/software-support-levels.md) to find which software we support.

## What's an App anyways?

An App is a container for your website or application. It comes with multiple Components, and a lot useful standards. See our [all about Apps article](/13.objects/1.app.md).

## How many websites in one app?

One App shall host one website. Each App comes with a dedicated App URL, dedicated metrics, a single Git repo and collaboration features. The tiny tinkering plans are designed for small websites.

## What about data center locations?

You can currently choose a data center location for each your apps. An approximate location will be shown.

## Can I cancel at any time?

Yes, you can quit your account completely with immediate effect at any time directly from the dashboard.

## Can I scale up and down at any time?

Yes. Scale [components](/12.platform/1.components/index.md) up and down at any time. Changes are not instantaneous and depending or currently available resources it may take a few minutes to provision the necessary hardware resources before the change becomes effective.

## How do you bill?

At the end of each month we send an invoice the usage of that month. The billing period is daily. So you'll be charged just for the days you have actually used a certain App or Component. See our [billing article](/15.billing/1.pricing.md) for more.

## What about taxes?

The fortrabbit service is targeted at professional B2B clients. Prices are net and subject to statutory VAT and may be added. Please also see our [VAT help page](/15.billing/6.vat.md).

## Can we have custom terms?

We do not practice custom terms negotiation with individual clients or for individual Apps. The fortrabbit hosting platform service scope is _a standardized self-service hosting software solution for professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises_. We intend to keep our business relations "light-weight".

We don't have a legal team on staff. There is no in house expertise to verify in which areas your custom contracts might contradict our own standard rules. The fortrabbit platform is constantly evolving. New features will usually affect all clients. New methods already need to be checked against our standard security standards, privacy rules and all legal aspects.

## Do you have a Technical and Organizational Measures document?

Please also understand that fortrabbit is mostly a software company - a so called Platform as a Service. The actual hosting infrastructure is running on Amazon Web Services. Standard Technical and Organizational Measures for general hosting services therefore mostly don't apply here. We don't have physical access to data centers and therefore can not grant access to a third party. This agrees with other PaaS vendors on the market, also "only" providing pointers to the infrastructures TOM.

## Can you fill a W-8BEN-E form?

According to our understanding, we are not required to fill out this form.

## Do you have a Certificate of Insurance?

A COI document is not common in Europe. However, fortrabbit is a registered GmbH in Germany. The best analogy in English is a Limited Liability Company (LLC).  We — like any other hosting company — can not agree to be liable for your losses on downtime, except for cases of gross negligence covered by our [Terms of Service](https://www.fortrabbit.com/terms). We do provide an [Service Level Agreement](https://www.fortrabbit.com/uptime) which may be relevant to this question.

## Do you comply with the NIC Directive (EU) 2016/1148?

No, we do not. From our understanding the Directive on security of network and information systems does not apply to us. Please understand that fortrabbit is mostly a software service, we do not control any physical networks. Apart from that, our company is a small business.
