---
reviewed: 2025-01-23 09:04:29
title: Free trial details
naviTitle: Free trial
navigation.excerpt: Options and limits
lead: Use cases, options and limits. Each new app at fortrabbit starts with a free trial that is limited in time.
---

## Use cases

The flexible free trial allows a variety of use cases and workflows. Fair usage of provided resources is expected.

- Exploring the platform
- Feature development
- Handover work to a client
- Weekend experiments

## Start a new trial

Create a new app in to the dashboard. Each new app starts as a free trial. Start a new new trial app, once the last one is expired.

## Trial time limit

There is a time limit for the trial. A countdown timer in the dashboard with the app will show you the time left. We may experiment with different timing options, expect 72h.

## Extend trial time

:ContactUs{text="Request more trial time"} with support to extend trial time. Write something about your goals and why you need more time. In most cases, we are happy to extend your trial time. This needs to be done ahead of trial end.

## Trial end

When setting an app in trial mode you can define what shall happen when the trial period ends:

### Opt-in

- no credit card required
- the app will be **deleted** at the end of the trial time
- upgrade at any time before to keep it

### Opt-out

- credit card required (no charges during trial)
- start paying after the trial ends
- cancel at any time before

The free trial is only limited by time. It's possible to book all components in all sizes. For larger plans opt-in is required.
