---
reviewed:  2023-07-08 13:59:28
title:     Deploy Craft CMS to fortrabbit
naviTitle: Deployment
excerpt:   Deploy Craft CMS with to fortrabbit
lead:      Learn how to setup automatic deployment for your Craft CMS application hosted on fortrabbit.
sidebar:   craft
showNext:  true
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'craft, craftCMS, setup, git, deploy, hosting, paas'
---

## Get ready

1. Have a [local development environment](/11.dev-tips/2.local-development.md) running
2. Follow our [setup steps](/3.craft/1.setup.md) to install Craft CMS locally
3. Know about [fortrabbit deployment features](/6.deployment/2.features.md)
4. Install the [fortrabbit GitHub app](/6.deployment/3.github-app.md) with your GitHub account

With the fortrabbit dashboard:

1. Create an app or choose an existing one
2. Connect an app environment with a branch of a GitHub repo

## Recommended Craft CMS build steps

Craft CMS is a pretty standardized application. Configure the build steps in the fortrabbit dashboard. We advice:

### Composer build step

In almost all cases you will want to run `composer install` during deployment.

### NPM build step

You may want to run a production build step for assets. This depends on your custom application logic:

```bash
npm run build
```

### Migration build step

<!-- This needs review -->

In most cases you will want to run database migrations after you have deployed, that's why you want to apply changes from project config and migrate all changes. We recommend to run these steps

```bash
php craft project-config/apply
php craft migrate/all
```

## Mostly done

Now you should have setup an automatic deployment pipeline that will listen to changes on your GitHub repo branch and deploy these automatically, running the configured build steps.

## Database syncing

Laravel applications with databases may require content syncing from your local development to the app environment or the other way around. Please visit our [MySQl import/export article](/9.mysql/2.export-import.md) for that.

## Additional workflows

The fortrabbit platform is not limited to GitHub deployment. Your application might has runtime data such as uploaded assets that require syncing. Have a look at our [deployment features 'Code VS Content'](/6.deployment/2.features.md#code-vs-content) for options and concepts.

## Alternative ways to deploy Craft CMS

Don't feel like using Craft Copy? No problem! Here are some alternative ways to deploy Craft on fortrabbit:

There is a more basic guide: [Install Craft using SFTP](/craft-upload-sftp).
Or if you prefer to use Git directly, check out our guide: [Deploy Craft CMS with Git](/craft-deploy-git)

### Assets management

Don't put the assets (uploads) in Git. Git is not made for binary files and it only works as a once way street. Deploy the Craft `assets` folder separately: [Deploy Craft CMS assets with rsync](/2.craft/4.assets.md)

### Database export / import

Please see our general [MySQL export/import guide](/9.mysql/2.export-import.md) for various ways to how to copy the database from local to remote and the other way around.
