---
reviewed: 2023-07-20
title: Direct code access
naviTitle: Intro
excerpt: SSH, SFTP
lead: Access files, logs and runtime data in your app environment directly.
structureNav: true
---

## SSH

SSH (Secure Shell) is a network protocol to login to remote web servers. SSH is used in the terminal. It's pre-installed with all operating systems. With SSH you login to have an interactive session on the remote server - the [app environment](/13.objects/2.app-environment.md) in our case. SSH is not suited for transferring files from your computer to the server. See the [SSH guide](/7.code-access/3.ssh.md) to get started.

## SFTP

SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol) is a network protocol to transfer files to and from web servers. It's build on top of SSH. You will usually use it with a graphical interface. See the [SFTP guide](/7.code-access/4.sftp.md) to get started.

## SSH key authentication

To access code by either method, SSH keys are required. Upload your public SSH keys to your personal account with the dashboard. Read [more about SSH keys here](/12.dev-tips/8.ssh-keys.md).

:DashboardLink{title="Account SSH keys" route="/you/keys"}

## Code access is not deployment

You can use SFTP or SSH, for example with [rsync](/12.dev-tips/7.rsync.md), to upload your website. But for most cases we recommend to use [Git deployment](/6.deployment/1.intro.md). It includes build steps and additional code backup through Git. It's not black and white either. You often will use some SSH/SFTP in addition — to sync generated assets and manage user uploads for example.

## Shared code access in teams

You manage your code access with your personal account on fortrabbit. This way you always have up-to-date code access on each app you have access on. It also makes managing the team easy — add/remove collaborators and code access is handled "automagically".
