---
reviewed:     2023-08-01 09:17:50
title:        SSH access
naviTitle:    SSH
excerpt:      Login to the remote shell
lead:         Learn what you can do with SH on fortrabbit.
structureNav: true
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'beginner, deployment, shell, bash, terminal'
---

## About SSH

Using our [Git deployment](/6.deployment/1.intro.md) is great, but sometimes need a little more control. That's where the Secure SHell comes in. SSH is the big brother of [SFTP](/7.code-access/4.sftp.md) and allows you to directly interact with the code on the remote server.

## SSH key authentication

You may want to set up an [SSH Key](8.ssh-keys.md) if you don't have one already.

## Accessing SSH

Execute the following in your terminal to login to your App.

```shell
# Connect to your App via SSH
$ ssh {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com
```

If you are asked for a password, it is NOT your Account password. It's likely then that the key has not been imported correctly or the client is sending the wrong key from the default location, and not the one you imported.

If the login went well, you will see a small welcome message:

```plain
–––––––––––––––––––––––  ∙ƒ  –––––––––––––––––––––––
```

You are now logged in to your App by SSH.

## Things to do with SSH

Following a few simple examples, just to give you some ideas:

```shell
# Download & unpack wordpress
$ curl https://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz | tar zx

# Stream your Apache access logs
$ tail -f ../logs/apache_access.log

# Search for 50x responses in apache access
$ grep -E ' 50[0-9] ' ../logs/apache_access.log
```

### Executing PHP scripts

If you want to execute PHP scripts, including `artisan` and it's like, make sure to specify the PHP interpreter explicitly:

```shell
# will work
$ php artisan some:command
$ php some-script.php

# will _not_ work:
$ ./artisan some:command
$ ./some-script.php
```

### Syncing code with rsync

The rsync tool makes it easy to synchronize files in different (remote) file system folders. Please read the dedicated [rsync article](/12.dev-tips/7.rsync.md).

### Using Composer

Using [Git deployment](/6.deployment/1.intro.md) will trigger [Composer](/12.dev-tips/3.composer.md) automatically. Therefore, it should not be necessary to run Composer from the App environment. If you still need to run Composer manually on the App, you can. Please think twice before using `composer update`, because that will bring your local code out of sync which is likely to cause issues. Use `composer install` instead. Again, running Composer directly on the App is probably not what you want to do.

## Limitations

- This is not a root shell, so you can't install or remove software packages
- Mind that you are using the same runtime as your web application: resource intensive operations will drain memory and CPU from the web execution
- [Crons](/10.components/6.crons.md) are managed via the dashboard, not the shell

## Creating an SSH Key

Please follow the instructions on the [SSH Keys](8.ssh-keys.md) page.
