---
reviewed: 2024-11-06 20:43:09
title: Deployment troubleshooting
naviTitle: Troubleshooting
navigation.excerpt: Debugging git deployment issues
---

## Get ready

Before starting to troubleshoot deployment issues, specifically if you are setting up things for the first time, make sure to have everything configured correctly:

- New to Git? Read the [git intro](/15.tips/git-intro.md) first
- Read the [deployment intro](/6.deployment/1.intro.md)
- Have the [fortrabbit GitHub app](/6.deployment/2.github-app.md) installed with GitHub
- Have an app environment connected to a repo at GitHub

## GitHub connectivity errors

You can NOT push to GitHub. You may see an error in the command line when trying to push or no changes arrive with the repo at GitHub.

- [GitHub: Troubleshooting SSH](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/troubleshooting-ssh)
- [GitHub: Troubleshooting connectivity problems](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-github/troubleshooting-connectivity-problems)

## Identifying deployment errors

There are two main sources to look for deployment pipeline errors:

- Deploy log: deployment log of the app environment with the dashboard
- fortrabbit GitHub app: log from the fortrabbit GitHub app at GitHub

## Transit errors

You can push to GitHub, the new deployment does not arrive with fortrabbit app environment, even though no errors are shown with the deploy logs.

- Do you have an account at fortrabbit and one on GitHub?
- Make sure to have the [fortrabbit GitHub app](/6.deployment/2.github-app.md) installed and connected
- Are you deploying to the branch that is connected?
- How did you set up automatic deployment with fortrabbit?

## Build command errors

The deploy logs at fortrabbit are showing errors and no code is deployed. Read the error message to understand what the problem is.

### Composer errors

Sometimes you might see a Composer error. This is rare. Usually this is caused by configuration issues on your side. Check your `composer.json` for issues.

### Node.js errors

Node task errors when running `npm run prod` or similar are not uncommon.

- Are all Node dependencies installed?
- Is the task defined in your `package.json`?
- Test the task with your local development environment
