---
reviewed:    2023-07-10 10:35:35
title:       Using the fortrabbit GitHub app
naviTitle:  GitHub
excerpt:     Connect your repos
lead:        Learn how to connect the most popular Git-as-a-service provider with your fortrabbit workflow using the fortrabbit GitHub app.
sidebar:     fortrabbit-github-app
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'git-hub, integrations, gitlab, bitbucket, coding, CI/CD, cloud, vcs, add-on, version control'
---

## Git ready

You are able to [use Git](/11.dev-tips/1.git-intro.md). You also have a good understanding of [deployment in general](/6.deployment/1.intro.md), as well as the specific [fortrabbit deployment features](/6.deployment/2.features.md). It's also considered that you have an account here at fortrabbit as well as with GitHub already.

## Installation

To connect GitHub with fortrabbit you need to install the fortrabbit GitHub app with your account at GitHub:

:ArticleBlockLink{title="Install the fortrabbit GitHub app" route="github.com/apps/fortrabbit" text="github.com/apps/fortrabbit"}

You will be prompted to give it access on your repos as well as to create repos on your behalf. You will also need to choose which context at GitHub you will want to give it access.

## Usage

### Connect a repo with an app environment

### Create a new repo with the fortrabbit GitHub app

## Advanced topics

### Behind the scenes

Simplified run when GitHub repo and app environment are connected

1. You push to your git repo
2. The fortrabbit GitHub app notices code changes and triggers a deployment
3. New code changes are pulled in
4. The code get's synced into web storage of the specified app environment
5. Build steps are running

### Removing access

You can at any time uninstall the fortrabbit GitHub app from your GitHub account. This will break
deployments. When deleting an app from fortrabbit, the connection over at GitHub will also be removed. Cancelling fortrabbit services will not automatically uninstall the fortrabbit GitHub app.

### Why even an App on GitHub?

The app at GitHub helps to make things smoother. This way we can listen to new code changes, private repos can be accessed and it is possible ot create a repo at GitHub while creating the app at fortrabbit.

### Repos from organisations at GitHub

If you have access on organisations at GitHub you

### Only fortrabbit accounts can deploy

### GitHub Actions

GitHub is also offering [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions), an integrated continuous integration solution. We do not offer predefined GitHub Actions, but [this blog post](https://blog.fortrabbit.com/how-to-use-github-actions) contains two templates to get started.
