---
reviewed:   2023-07-10 10:35:35
title:      Build steps
navitTitle: Build steps
excerpt:    Composer, Node.js and more
lead:       Run tasks such as `composer install` and `npm run prod` during deployment.
structureNav: true
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'github actions, pipeline, pnpm, gulp, webpack, '
---

## Get ready

You have followed the [deployment section](/6.deployment/index.md) so far and are ready deploy code by git via the GitHub integration.

## Setting up build steps

Build steps are git deployment settings. You can define them in the fortrabbit dashboard for each [app environment](/13.objects/2.app-environment.md). When setting up an environment, [software preset](/14.concepts/software-presets.md) defaults will suggested matching general practices. You can change these settings at any time:

:DashboardLink{title="Edit build steps for TODO" path="/environments/1/git/pipeline"}

## Behind the scenes

Build steps are a list of commands that will get executed after the [fortrabbit GitHub app](/6.deployment/3.github-app.md) has received the latest updates from Git and before those are getting deployed into the web space of the app environment. The Git updates, together with the results from the build steps are forming the build package to be released.

## Common deployment build step tasks

## Composer

Most PHP development is done with the help of frameworks or content management systems. These are usually installed as a dependency and themselves using other dependencies. All that code is not part of Git, so when the code get's delivered, those dependencies need to be installed or updated for the given environment. Find more details with our [Composer article](/11.dev-tips/3.composer.md).

## Node.js

Most web development is done with the help of Javascript build tooling. Specific production build steps create optimized build bundles to be served to clients from the web application.

## Alternatives
