---
reviewed: 2024-12-11 15:17:28
title: Deployment strategy
navitTitle: Deployment strategy
navigation.excerpt: How files will be distributed into the environment
lead: This setting defines how a build pack will be distributed to web space of your environment. The flows are matching use cases and your skill level.
siblings: Deployment
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'atomic, incremental, decremental, rsync'
---

The result of the changes received by git push and the build steps execution is called a deploy package - a temporary file set. This will be put into the storage of the app environment somehow. You can change the deployment synchronization strategy setting with the dashboard.

The best strategy depends on the software and deployment flows to be used. With the [software template](/11.concepts/software-templates.md) defaults for the deployment strategy are set.

## Merge strategy

The default strategy applied for deployment package synchronization is overwrite but not delete:

- Newer files will replace older files on the storage
- New files will be created on the storage
- **Files not present in the deploy package but on the storage will not be touched**

This strategy fit's most use cases, since no runtime data, like uploads, transforms, caches template fragments and other content will get deleted. This however can result in some weird edge case side effects.

When merge strategy is enabled

## Replace strategy

Another deployment strategy is to create an replica of the current deploy package in the web space. That means, all files in the web space will be deleted first and replaced by the contents of the deploy package. This is sometimes called atomic or immutable deployment. It's related to 12-factor design and ephemeral storage where the web application should not write anything to disk. In theory it's great, since it would allow you to rollback to any previous state easily. Reality is more messy in our experience, this does not play well with many PHP based web applications.

In addition to the full replace strategy you can set certain [excluded files and folders](/6.deployment/9.excluded-folders.md) that will be sustained from replacement.
