---
title: Changes
naviTitle: Changes
navigation.excerpt: New features and deprecations
lead: This page helps existing clients getting started with the new platform. Get orientation for new features and deprecations. Don't be afraid, the new platform will feel familiar.
siblings: New platform
nextNav: false
---

## One stack

The legacy platform features two different stacks: Universal Apps (with persistent storage and direct SSH access) and Professional Apps (with ephemeral storage and horizontal scaling). For the new platform attributes from both previous stacks are combined into one. The new platform is more Uni-App-like with persistent storage and direct SSH/SFTP access.

<!-- [Workers & crons jobs](/9.components/7.jobs.md) are available too. There is no horizontal scaling any more, but higher vertical scaling to cover similar workloads. -->

To achieve this we went a long mile, but it was an important goal, the two stacks have been barrier.

## App environments

To better support production-staging workflows the app is now a grouping object. Dedicated hosting stacks are mapped with app environments. An [app](/10.objects/1.app.md) is connected to the (external) Git repo, each individually scalable [app environment](/10.objects/2.app-environment.md) represents a branch. At least one app environment, usually production, adding and removing environments is optional.

## Git deployment

fortrabbit no longer provides Git repo hosting. Connect your GitHub (other providers planned) with the fortrabbit GitHub app to enable `git push` deployment instead. See the [GitHub integration](/6.deployment/2.github-app.md). This enables many advanced workflows, such as working with pull requests.

## Build commands

The deployment pipeline is more configurable. Node.js is available during the deployment to create Javascript bundles. See the new [build commands article](/6.deployment/3.build-commands.md).

## SSH keys only

Sorry, username/password is no longer an option to connect via SSH or SFTP. Please use more secure and more convenient SSH key authentication. Issues with username/password authentication have been the source of many support requests.

## Collaboration

While not directly part of the developer experience, we know that the collaboration features are an important platform aspect. Thus, collaboration workflows have been extended as well. The concepts are similar, yet more flexible.

With the old platform, it was required to join the Company of the business owner to get access on their Apps. Re-inviting colleagues was not only a repetitive task, but also destroying attribution. With the new platform, the relation between the parties is more transparent.

No more company plans: Collaboration on the legacy platform is a paid feature for larger teams. All collaboration features are now available for free.

## People

We are doubling down on personal access. Each person involved should their own (free) account. This enables more scenarios and better mapping of real world business relations. See the [person object article](/10.objects/3.person.md).

## Teams

Instead of a hierarchical structure with the Company as the root element, there are decoupled but related objects now. Use the new team to collaborate with a group of developers. Teams are connected to apps, developers and payment methods. See the [team article](/10.objects/4.team.md).

## Payment methods

A Billing Contact is now called payment method. Like the old Billing Contact, it holds the billing credentials. Unlike before, it is not part of a Company but instead is managed by clients, individual developers and teams. A payment method pays for the apps, thus people in control of the payment method control the hosting.

## Pricing

Billing concepts mostly stay the same. There still is [pro-rated billing](/12.billing/3.pro-rated-billing.md).

## Components

The pricing structure, as with the former Pro Stack, is based on [components](/9.components/index.md). This enables you to book only required resources, avoiding over-provisioning. Presets to get started quickly are available.

## New documentation

The website you are currently viewing is part of the [new documentation](/).

## No PHP 7.4

The new platform wil only offer PHP 8 and upwards. Make sure the software you run is compatible.

## Migration period

No rush. The legacy platform will slowly phase out. We will support you as much as possible to make the switch as seamless as possible. We are looking forward to move Apps on your behalf. See our [migration guide](/1.new-platform/2.migration.md).
