---
rank: 5
reviewed: 2026-04-21
title: Statamic deployment options
naviTitle: Deployment options
navigation.excerpt: Get to know options on fortrabbit
lead: Learn here how to install Statamic on fortrabbit.
figure:
  emoji: 🧭
  hide: true
sidebar: statamic
nextNav: true
---

## Get ready

- Have a [local development environment](/4.integrations/01.local-development/01.intro.md) with PHP and a web server ready.
- Have [Statamic installed and running locally](/2.guides/5.statamic/01.install.md).

## Deployment flow considerations

There are two "main" ways to deploy code here on fortrabbit: [Git](/1.platform/05.deployment/01.intro.md) and SSH/SFTP/rsync based flows. Legacy software, like [WordPress](/2.guides/6.wordpress/01.setup.md), is better uploaded in classical manner with SFTP. Modern PHP web frameworks that are based on [Composer](/3.dev/15.learn/02.composer.md) and better deployed with Git.

Now, Statamic is a bit in between and is - like [Grav](/2.guides/7.more/07.grav.md) and [Kirby](/2.guides/4.kirby) - file based. So there is usually no database, the actual contents are text files written on the file system, but being based on Laravel, of course it's powered by Composer.

### Using a database with Statamic

If you intend to use Statamic with a database, make sure to have the [database component](/1.platform/09.components/02.mysql.md) booked. You will also need to sync database contents up and down. See [database import/export options](/1.platform/08.mysql/02.export-import/07.intro.md).

## Deployment options

Here are three ways to get code and content up (and down):

### 1 - rsync

This command line flow is easy to automate, for instance when working with AI agents. rsync syncing also supports both directions: template and config changes go up, content comes down. See the [general rsync article](/3.dev/20.how-to/rsync.md) to sync all files up and down. Use this flow for quick success on solo projects and for demo purposes.

In most cases it will be fine to sync the vendor folder, but you can also exclude that and run composer install and other tasks on the environment directly by logging in by [SSH](/1.platform/04.code-access/03.ssh.md).

### 1 - SFTP upload

There is not much to say on that topic. Just make sure to upload all contents of your local Statamic folder, including the hidden `.htaccess` file into the `htdocs` folder within your environment. You may also upload the vendor folder. Use this flow if you are new to web development, but consider learning better options.

### 3 - Git + rsync workflow

This is most advanced workflow, made for sophisticated projects and working with teams. Manage template code with Git, sync content with rsync. Beside code revision, you get deployment automation, like running composer install, migrations and cache clearing during deployment.

Get started [over here](/2.guides/5.statamic/03.deploy-git-rsync.md).
