---
reviewed: 2025-01-14 09:08:31
title: Tune Kirby
naviTitle: Tune
navigation.excerpt: Domains, database migrations for WordPress …
lead: Tune the popular blogging and CMS engine WordPress on fortrabbit.
sidebar: kirby
siblings: Kirby
---

## Working with the Panel

Kirby - like other CMS - has a "Panel". That dashboard enables you - or maybe the client/editor - to create and edit the contents easily in the browser. You can create different users (admins) for the Panel. When first visiting the Panel, locally, you are greeted to set up the first admin user.

The panel users are by default NOT stored with Git. So your local users will not available on the fortrabbit App. You can now either include the users with Git by removing the relevant lines from `.gitignore` or - maybe better - set up the users locally and on the remote app environment.

### Continuous development

We recommend always developing locally first — it's just the most convenient way. Deploy when you have reached a certain state of development. In many cases the real content will be created on the fortrabbit App. You can easily sync down changes from production into development with rsync.

### Updating Kirby

We recommend updating your local development environment first. On your local computer enter `composer update` in the terminal at the root level of the project folder to trigger the update. When you have confirmed that everything works, `git push` to push the latest updates to your fortrabbit App.

### Sending mails

fortrabbit does not support `sendmail`, so sending mails out of the box might not work. Kirby provides config for transactional mail providers, or you can use a plugin to send e-mail over your own SMTP account.

### Getting a license

Remember that Kirby is not free software. Get a license, support the authors!
