---
reviewed: 2025-07-02 12:49:38
title: Database access from your computer
naviTitle: Access from local
navigation.excerpt: Connect to the database from your local machine
lead: How to connect to the remote database hosted on fortrabbit from your local machine.
siblings: MySQL
nextNav: true
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'localhost, mysqldump, dump, mysql, database, innodb, myisam, phpmyadmin, heidisql, workbench, sequel-pro, sequel, tunnel, nosql'
---

Whether you want to run a query on your live database or you want to dump your whole database: access the database on fortrabbit remotely. For security reasons you cannot connect to the MySQL database from "outside" directly, but you can open a SSH tunnel and then connect to the MySQL database through this tunnel. Next you can decide upon using a graphical user interface or the terminal:

## Database access via terminal

To set up a tunnel from port 13306 on localhost to the mysql-database on 3306, use the following command;

```shell
ssh -N -L 13306:mysql:3306 {{app-env-id}}@ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app
```

Port local 13306 is just an example, any port in the range 1025-65535 can be used. The remote port 3306 must be 3306.
This command is not supposed to print a confirmation message. If nothing shows up: you did it right!

Once the tunnel is up, you can connect to the remote MySQL database with the `mysql` console client. Open a **new window terminal window** and issue this on your **local machine**:

```shell
# connect to the database < use 127.0.0.1, not localhost
$ mysql -u {{app-env-id}} -h127.0.0.1 -P13306 -p -D {{app-env-id}}
```

In the next step you will be asked for your MySQL password. Look it up in the dashboard.

## Database access via GUI

For macOS we recommend the free [Sequel Ace](https://github.com/Sequel-Ace/Sequel-Ace). It's a fork of Sequel Pro (which is not compatible with recent MySQL versions any more). Other free alternatives are [MySQL Workbench](http://www.mysql.com/products/workbench) and [HeidiSQL](http://www.heidisql.com). Commercial MySQL clients are [TablePlus](https://tableplus.com) and [NaviCat](https://navicat.com/en). There are more.

The clients above can be configured to help you to connect via an SSH tunnel to the MySQL database in one convenient step. In the connection dialog or tab of the client you pick, you will need to insert the correct parameters for SSH and MySQL.

To give you an idea of how the access details should be configured, here an example using MySQL Workbench:

- Create a new connection with _Connection Method_ set to `Standard TCP/IP over SSH`, then:
- **SSH Host**: `ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app`
- **SSH User**: `{{app-env-id}}`
- **SSH Keyfile**: Your local SSH private key
- **MySQL Host**: `mysql.{{app-env-id}}.svc`
- **MySQL Server Port**: `3306`
- **Username**: `{{app-env-id}}`
- **Password**: Look it up in the dashboard
- **Default Schema**: `{{app-env-id}}`

The MySQL hostname will not be `127.0.0.1` or `localhost` — it's the remote server: `mysql.{{app-env-id}}.svc`.

### phpMyAdmin

For security and practical reasons we consider it bad practice to install phpMyAdmin on your fortrabbit App. However, you can also manage the remote MySQL with a **local phpMyAdmin installation**. Add an additional server configuration to your local phpMyAdmin `config.inc.php` file like so:

```
$cfg['Servers'][$i]['verbose']       = '{{app-env-id}}';
$cfg['Servers'][$i]['host']          = '127.0.0.1';
$cfg['Servers'][$i]['port']          = '13306'; // like specified in the tunnel command (see below)
$cfg['Servers'][$i]['connect_type']  = 'tcp';
$cfg['Servers'][$i]['extension']     = 'mysqli';
$cfg['Servers'][$i]['compress']      = FALSE;
$cfg['Servers'][$i]['auth_type']     = 'cookie';
$i++;
```

Then open a terminal tunnel, then visit your local phpMyAdmin in the browser. You will be asked for the MySQL user "**{{app-env-id}}**" and password. Using a local phpMyAdmin with your remote database requires you to always open a tunnel first.
