---
reviewed: 2024-11-29 21:29:16
title: External domains
naviTitle: External domains
navigation.excerpt: Connecting external domains
lead: Add external domains to your environments to receive traffic.
links:
  - title: Domain intro
    route: /objects/domain
    property: docs
  - title: APEX domain
    route: /dns/apex-domains
    property: docs
  - title: WWW forwarding
    route: /dns/www-forwarding
    property: docs
---

An "external domain" is a domain registered with a third party [domain name registrar](/14.integrations/10.domain-providers.md). Connect an external domain with an [app environment](/10.objects/2.app-environment.md) to have it receive traffic for that address.

## Connecting an external domain

:DashboardLink{title="Add a new domain" path="/new/domain"}

### 1. Tell fortrabbit about your domain

1. Click New > "Add a new domain" and follow the steps
2. Choose a domain name and an environment
3. After saving, keep the window open for the DNS settings

### 2. Point the domain to fortrabbit

Use the provided DNS information from the fortrabbit dashboard to change the domain routing with your domain provider.

- For sub domains like www, use the CNAME record
- www domains get an A record for the root domain for [forwarding](/13.dns/2.www-forwarding.md)
- For APEX domains apply the [ALIAS/ANAME record](/13.dns/aname-alias-records.md)
- Leave any other records untouched, especially MX
- Remove any AAAA records

Save the settings with your domain provider and wait a while. The while depends on the TTL settings of the DNS records, or usually up to 6h.

### APEX domains

See the [APEX domains article](/11.concepts/apex-domains.md) to learn about APEX domains and how to forward.

## TLS certificates

Please see the [HTTPS article](/13.dns/4.https.md) for information on secured connections.

## Choosing a domain provider

Please see our [domain provider article](/14.integrations/1.domain-providers.md) what you may want to look for when choosing a domain provider to be used in combination with fortrabbit.

## Wildcard domains

Wildcard domains are currently not supported at fortrabbit. Please file a support ticket to describe your use case.

## Configuring a domain for e-mail

To receive and send e-mails from your domain you will configure the MX record of your domain with your [domain provider](/14.integrations/10.domain-providers.md). Please see your e-mail hosting provider for instructions, here is [more on e-mail hosting from us](/14.integrations/12.email-providers.md).

## Troubleshooting

See our [DNS troubleshooting guide](/15.tips/dns-troubleshooting.md) if it is stuck.
