---
reviewed: 2025-01-15 10:41:44
title: Composer
figure:
  emoji: 🎼
  text: Orchestrate PHP dependencies harmoniously.
  color: rgba(160, 160, 180, 1)
  textColor: rgba(50, 50, 60, 1)
lead: Composer is the defacto standard to handle PHP application dependencies, as well as providing mechanisms to keep them up-2-date. Integrate Composer into your development workflow with fortrabbit.
navigation.excerpt: Using the PHP dependency on fortrabbit
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'composerphp, git, getcomposer, Dependency Manager, vendor, composer.json, composer.lock'
---

## Get ready

It's recommended that you have a [local development environment](/4.integrations/01.local-development/01.intro.md) running including Composer and that you are making use of it already. Have a good understanding of [deployment in general](/1.platform/05.deployment/01.intro.md) and on fortrabbit.

## Composer as part of deployment

We recommend to run `composer install` as part of the build pipeline. When you deploy code with Git and Composer is defined as a [build command](/1.platform/05.deployment/03.build-commands.md), it will run automatically with each deployment. New and updated dependencies will be synced into the web space.

## Composer and Git

The `vendor` folder should NOT be in Git: Make sure that folder is included in your `.gitignore` file. This directory is created by Composer within your project locally and contains all the packages you are using locally. Make sure that both the `composer.lock` file and the `composer.json` file are present and part of Git.

## Alternative locations

Your `composer.json` and `composer.lock` files need to be stored in the root folder of your application.

## Private repositories in Composer

You need to add the private repositories into your `composer.json` file? Read on with [composer private repos](/3.dev/15.learn/composer-private-repos.md).

## Composer from SSH

While we highly recommend leveraging Composer via the Git deployment (see above), you can also execute Composer when logged in via [SSH](/1.platform/04.code-access/03.ssh.md). Please note that this should only be done in certain edge cases.

```shell
ssh {{app-env-id}}@ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app
composer install
```

This way Composer will be executed within the web delivery environment, which is not optimized for such tasks. **Don't use `composer update` as this might cause Composer to hit the App's memory limits.** The most common Composer issue is, when users are running into memory problems when trying to execute composer while logged in via SSH here. The general answer on that is: Please don't. Use Composer together with Git deployment as described above.
