---
reviewed:  2023-07-08 13:59:28
title:     Craft CMS local setup
naviTitle: Setup
excerpt:   Local install, configure for fortrabbit
lead:      Learn how to install Craft CMS on your local machine - matching your skills and workflows.
sidebar:  craft
showNext: true
keywords:
  - craft
  - craftCMS
  - setup
  - install-guide
---

## Get ready

[Be ready](/get-ready), make sure to have a [local development environment](/local-development) up and running and be aware of the [different Craft deployment workflows](/craft-start) available. Use the detailed [official Craft install guide](https://docs.craftcms.com/v4/installation.html) as your guideline to install Craft on your local machine first. You can safely skip this step when you already have an existing Craft 3 project running locally.

## Choose your Craft install workflow

The way you will install Craft will set the course on how you will [deploy](/deployment-methods) Craft CMS here on fortrabbit. **Choose your workflow now**:

### 1a. Download Craft with Composer

This is the recommended - more sophisticated - way. You will use [Git](/git) and [Composer](/composer#toc-local-composer) in the Terminal. Run this command **on you local machine** to create a Craft CMS project to get started:

```bash
composer create-project craftcms/craft {{app-name}}
```

See an error? Check your [local development](/local-development). Later on you can [deploy Craft with Git](/craft-deploy-git) either to Universal or Professional Apps on fortrabbit.

### 1b. Download the Craft zip file

Are you more "designer" and less "developer"? SFTP also works here. Just download Craft directly from the Craft website: [craftcms.com/latest-v3.zip](https://craftcms.com/latest-v3.zip). Unpack that zip file to get to the actual project files. Later on you can upload [Craft with SFTP](/craft-upload-sftp) on Universal Apps.

## Install Craft CMS locally

Craft CMS uses environment variables to access environment specific settings. With your fortrabbit Craft App, those variables are already set. Configure it to work on your local machine now. You have two options to install Craft:

### 2a. Terminal setup

```bash
# 1. go into your local Craft folder 
$ cd {{app-name}}

# 2. run the terminal installer
$ ./craft setup
```

This will ask you some questions, the defaults will work mostly, you can change these settings later.

### 2b. Browser setup

You can also run the installer in the browser by visiting this address: `http://{{host}}/index.php?p=admin/install` in your browser. Substitute `{{host}}` with the [host name of your local development environment](/local-development#toc-virtual-hosts).

## Craft configuration on fortrabbit

Craft CMS uses modern `.env` style configuration, learn more about the concepts [here](/env-vars). This means you can run your Craft locally and remotely without code or configuration file changes. Locally, your `.env` file will be modified and read. That file is not part of Git, you don't need it on the App.

## Database setup

**No need to configure the MySQL database connection for fortrabbit.** On fortrabbit the [environment variables](/env-vars) are seeded from the ones set in the fortrabbit Dashboard (not from the .env file). If you chose Craft in the [software preset](/software-preset) when creating the app, all ENV vars at fortrabbit will already be pre-populated.

## Next steps

Craft CMS is configured to run locally and is also ready for fortrabbit. Next you can [deploy it with Craft Copy](/craft-deploy-craft-copy).  Don't forget our [Craft tuning guide](/craft-tune) afterwards.
