---
reviewed: 2024-11-30 20:12:20
title: Laravel setup
naviTitle: Setup
navigation.excerpt: Configure your local installation
lead: Prepare your local Laravel installation for fortrabbit.
sidebar: laravel
nextNav: true
siblings: Laravel guides
head:
  meta:
    - name: "keywords"
      content: "laravel"
---

My change!

## Get ready

Make sure to have a [local development environment](/3.dev/19.how-to/1.local-development.md) up and running. Use the detailed [official Laravel install guide](https://laravel.com/docs/installation) as your guideline to install Laravel on your local machine first. Here is the gist:

```shell
# Use Composer to create a local Laravel project (named like your app)
composer create-project laravel/laravel --prefer-dist {{app-env-id}}
```

Most people will however want to use an existing code base to be deployed to your app at fortrabbit. In some cases Laravel is the framework for the actual software that runs on top - like with [Statamic](/2.guides/4.statamic/1.setup.md) or [October CMS](/2.guides/5.more/6.october-cms.md).

## Create an app at fortrabbit

If you not have already, hop over to the fortrabbit dashboard and create an app as the public runtime instance for your upcoming Laravel project. The wizard will guide you through the steps. Choose Laravel as your [software template](/1.platform/11.concepts/software-templates.md).

:BlockLink{title="Create a new app" path="/new/app"}

## Software template

If Laravel is detected or you have chosen it in the software list, the Laravel software template will be applied. This will pre-configure common ENV vars and set the root path to `public`.

## MySQL configuration

Not all Laravel projects require a database connection. Some do. Just keep `config/database.php` as it is when you have chosen Laravel with the software template. The all CAPITAL configs in the `config/database.php` file will be replaced by the contents of the environment variables. For your local development setup you can populate the `.env` file with your local database credentials. See the [ENV var topic](/3.dev/19.env-vars/) as well.

This will enable the app environment to connect to the database.
