---
reviewed: 2026-07-06
reviewer: fl
title: Secure WordPress
naviTitle: Security
navigation.excerpt: Keep WordPress secure
lead: 'WordPress security: keep your core, plugins, and themes automatically updated. Enable background updates to stay protected against evolving threats.'
figure:
  emoji: 🛡️
  hide: true
sidebar: wordpress
head:
  meta:
    - name: keywords
      content: 'WordPress security, automatic updates, wp-login.php, plugin security, fortrabbit'
---

The good news is that WordPress has automatic background updates and they are enabled by default. Please check the article from the official WordPress codex on how to [configure automatic background updates](https://wordpress.org/support/article/configuring-automatic-background-updates) and take care that your WordPress core, plugins and even themes are always [up-to-date](#updating-wordpress).

## Protect against bots

WordPress often gets targeted by bots, trying to access `wp-login.php` and `xmlrpc.php`. Blocking access to these files will increase stability and security.

## Sending e-mails

You cannot use [sendmail](/1.platform/03.concepts/09.limits.md#mailing) on fortrabbit but you can use a SMTP plugin like [WP SMTP](http://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-smtp) or [WP Mail SMTP](http://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-mail-smtp) to enable SMTP support for the `wp_mail()` function. See also: [email integration guides](/4.integrations/05.email/01.intro.md).

## Resetting the wp-admin password

If WordPress cannot send email via SMTP (see above), the "Lost your password?" recovery flow will not work. Reset the password another way.

The recommended method is [WP-CLI](/2.guides/6.wordpress/02.tune.md#using-the-wp-cli) over an [SSH](/1.platform/04.code-access/03.ssh.md) connection. It hashes the new password with the current WordPress algorithm:

```shell
wp user update admin --user_pass="a-strong-new-password"
```

Replace `admin` with the account's user login or email address.

As a fallback, set the password directly in the database. WordPress accepts an MD5 hash in the `user_pass` column for backward compatibility and re-hashes it with the current algorithm on the next successful login:

1. Connect to the remote MySQL database from local
2. Find the account in the `wp_users` table
3. Set `user_pass` to the MD5 hash of a safe new password
4. Log in to wp-admin, which upgrades the stored hash automatically

## Running WordPress in a sub folder

There are two reasons to install WordPress in a sub directory instead of in `htdocs`:

1. WordPress is just the blog-part of the website: `mydomain.com/blog`
2. You want to run multiple WordPress sites in one environment. Please don't.

You can achieve the first option by putting WordPress in a folder and by changing the "Site Address URL" parameter (see above). Also see the official WordPress codex on how to [give WordPress its own directory](https://wordpress.org/support/article/giving-wordpress-its-own-directory).
