---
reviewed: 2026-07-04
reviewer: fl
title: Tune Kirby
naviTitle: Tune
navigation.excerpt: Updating Kirby, Panel, mails …
lead: Configure Kirby's panel, caching, and email settings on fortrabbit.
figure:
  emoji: 😈
  text: The devil is in the details.
  color: rgb(190, 120, 180)
  textColor: rgb(78, 24, 54)
  hide: true
sidebar: kirby
head:
  meta:
    - name: keywords
      content: 'Kirby CMS, panel configuration, caching, email, SMTP, fortrabbit'
---

## Working with the panel

Kirby - like other CMS - has a "Panel". It enables you - or maybe the client/editor - to create and edit the contents easily in the browser. You can create different users (admins) for the Panel. When first visiting the Panel, locally, you are greeted to set up the first admin user.

The panel users are by default NOT stored with Git. So your local users will not be available on the fortrabbit App. You can now either include the users with Git by removing the relevant lines from `.gitignore` or - maybe better - set up the users locally and on the remote environment.

### Setup panel

Kirby does not let you set up the Panel by default on public-facing servers, see [create your Kirby first account](https://getkirby.com/docs/guide/quickstart#create-your-first-account). If you upload your contents before setting up the panel and want to use the panel on the server, rather than locally, you need to [enable the `panel.install` option](https://getkirby.com/docs/reference/system/options/panel#allow-the-panel-to-be-installed-on-a-remote-server).

## Updating Kirby

We recommend updating your local development environment first. On your local computer enter `composer update` in the terminal at the root level of the project folder to trigger the update. When you have confirmed that everything works, `git push` to push the latest updates to fortrabbit.

## Caching

We highly recommend to turn on Kirby's native page caching. This is how you can enable it with the config file:

```php
// /site/config/config.php
return [
  'cache' => [
    'pages' => [
      'active' => true,
    ]
  ]
];
```

If the config file does not exist, create it. Check the [official Kirby caching guides](https://getkirby.com/docs/guide/cache) for more options and a video.

## Sending mails

fortrabbit does not support `sendmail`, so sending mails out of the box might not work. Kirby provides config for transactional mail providers, or you can use a plugin to send e-mail over your own SMTP account.
