---
reviewed: 2025-09-12 14:04:27
title: Headless
naviTitle: Headless workflows
navigation.excerpt: Working with decoupled applications
# lead: How to map your real live workflows to apps and environments.
siblings: Setup
links:
  - title: Headless and reactive
    route: /headless-and-reactive.md
    property: blog
---

## 2 - Decoupled

This dual stack approach consists of two independent system that can talk to each other. A frontend is based on Javascript (Svelte, Next.js, Nuxt.js, Astro …). A PHP backend provides an API (REST, GraphQL). The frontend part is called JAMstack sometimes.

## 3 - Coupled

Some developers questioned the decoupled approach. Why not send HTML over the wire? Why not use existing tooling for routing and authentication? Modern PHP frameworks come with battle tested tooling, like routing and authentication. Twig and Blade are powerful templating languages. Why abandon all that? Build modern monoliths! This is faster and often easier to implement.

### A - Livewire

The aim of Laravel Livewire is to enable PHP developers to create modern reactive websites without having to leave the PHP world at all. The logic is written in PHP, while the templates are still in Blade, but with superpowers to enable live partial updates and reactivity.

- [laravel-livewire.com](https://laravel-livewire.com/)

### B - Interia.js

Interia.js, also hailing from the Laravel scene, has a different approach. It glues together the PHP backend with any frontend, think Vue.js or React based systems. Unlike with decoupled systems, the data is directly provided by the PHP layer. Export data from PHP, directly use in Vue or alike. Each Javascript framework has it's own adaptor.

- [inertiajs.com](https://inertiajs.com/)

### C - Symfony UX

The user experience layer from Symfony is a mix of different technologies and boilerplate. It contains some ready made common use components for maps, icons and charts that can be directly used. It also includes the Hotwire (37signals) modules Turbo and Stimulus.

- [ux.symfony.com](https://ux.symfony.com/)
- [hotwired.dev](https://hotwired.dev/)

## SEO

Not for all, but for many web projects good visibility in search engines is a must. One has to assume that seach engine crawlers will not be able to intepret Javascript like a browser.

The Singe Page Application with CSR will be invisible for the search engines.

With SSG, all pages are pre-rendered and the SPA mode kicks in when a human visitor stops by. But if an editor changes the content of an article? Usually the generation of the pages pnly happens when teh project get's deployed. With deploy webhooks, deployment, even incremental ones can be trigged, but that setting up such system can be challenging.

Classical PHP with no reactivity, SSR and coupled projects come with good SEO.

## Deployment

How can the different options be put on public server in an automated way?This is a wide subject, let's focus on the requirements for the above mentioned reactive PHP projects.

### No reactivity

Easy peasy. This type does not require any complex interaction between frontend and backend and therefore is easy to deploy to a web host.

### Decoupled

For the decoupled project, the frontend and the backed projects can be deployed to different web hosts. Deploy the PHP part to service that supports a PHP runtime. Deploy the JS part to a dedicated JAMstack hosting service. This is sophisticated, but also a bit complex.

Depending on the project requirements and the service features, it might also be possible to deploy both projects to a single hosting service.

In most cases the frontend part needs to be built using something like `npm run build`. This is usually done during deployment. For example with GitHub Actions or a PaaS service that connects to the Git repo.

### Coupled

The modern monoliths need to be deployed alongside on the same server, since PHP will need to call Node.js.

Our implementation for the [new platform](https://new.fortrabbit.com) will be Node.js runtime that is available with the job components so that Node.js can be called from the backend.
