---
title: Key-value store
navigation.excerpt: Database, cache, queue message broker
siblings: Components
lead: In-memory data store based on Valkey.
wip: true
sidebar: key-value-store
---

The key-value store is a Redis-compatible versatile open source software to be used as in-memory data structure store, key-value database, cache or even queue message broker.

:BlockLink{title="Book key-value store" path="/environments/{{app-env-id}}/settings/components#key-value-store"}

## Booking and scaling

The key-value store is implemented as an optional component on fortrabbit with various plans differing the available memory. It can be booked and scaled per [app environment](/1.platform/10.objects/2.app-environment.md). To book and scale the key-value store, navigate to the dashboard and select your app environment. Find the components section. Choose the key-value store and select the desired plan based on your memory requirements. Confirm your selection to book the key-value store.

## Using the key-value store

Valkey is supported by many PHP frameworks and CMS's out of the box, it's popular among [Laravel](/2.guides/2.laravel/1.setup.md) developers. For specific integrations check out the install guides and find out how to use it with your favorite framework or CMS.

### Session handler

If you don't use a framework, configure `session.save_handler` and `session.save_path` in your php.ini to tell phpvalkey where to store the sessions. Make sure to do it very early in your application, before accessing session data.

```php
// Read the secrects you've set in the Dashboard
$secrets = json_decode(file_get_contents($_SERVER["APP_SECRETS"]), true);
$host    = $secrets['CUSTOM']['VALKEY_HOST'];
$port    = $secrets['CUSTOM']['VALKEY_PORT'];
$auth    = $secrets['CUSTOM']['VALKEY_PASSWORD'];

// Change the session handler
ini_set('session.save_handler', 'valkey');
ini_set("session.save_path", "tcp://{$host}:{$port}?persistent=1&timeout=2&auth={$auth}");
```

### Persistent connections

We recommend using persistent connections. Most adapters are configurable with a setting like `persistent: 1`.
