---
reviewed: 2024-08-25 14:09:23
title: Grav install guide
naviTitle: Grav
navigation.excerpt: File based CMS based on Twig
lead: Grav is a popular, free, file based CMS based on Twig & Markdown. Learn here how to install and tune Grav on fortrabbit.
sidebar: grav-cms
---

## Quick start

We usually advice to run [your project locally](/15.tips/1.local-development.md) and use [Git deployment](/6.deployment/1.intro.md). Since Grav CMS is a static file content management system where files may change on the app environment, we can not advice to use git deployment, since it is designed to work as a one way street.

## SFTP installation guide

1. Download the "latest Grav Core + Admin plugin" from the [Grav website](https://getgrav.org/downloads) from the Grav website and unpack it locally.
2. Copy all **contents** of the local `grav-admin` folder (not the folder itself) via [SFTP](/7.code-access/4.sftp.md) to the `htdocs` folder of your app environment.

When the upload is finished, visit [{{app-env-slug}}.frb.io](https://{{app-env-slug}}.frb.io) in your browser and commence with the guided web installation to finish the setup.

Consider to use [rsync](/15.tips/rsync.md) to sync changes up and down.

## Environment configuration

Grav allows you to [configure different settings based on the domain](https://learn.getgrav.org/advanced/environment-config) it is served from. For example, if you are developing your Grav site locally, you probably want the debugging enabled while you want it to be disabled, when serving the app environment from fortrabbit. To that end, you can create domain specific configurations. All you need to do is create a new `system.yaml` configuration file for you custom domain. Say the domain you are using is `www.my-grav.tld`, you would create the file `user/www.my-grav.tld/config/system.yaml`, in which you then set:

```yaml
debugger:
  enabled: false
```

An even better approach is set your `user/config/system.yaml` as restrictive as possible while using a special localhost configuration in `user/localhost/config/system.yaml`, which enables debugging and so on:

```yaml
debugger:
  enabled: true
```
