---
reviewed:  2023-08-25 14:21:07
title:     Symfony guide
naviTitle: Symfony
navigation.excerpt:   Web framework and components library
lead:      Symfony has been around for some while — but it doesn't look old. Install and tune Symfony on fortrabbit.
sidebar:   symfony
---

<!-- TODO: Review by PHP expert -->

## Get ready

We assume you've already created a new app and chose Symfony in the [Software Preset](/11.concepts/software-presets.md). If not: You can do so in the fortrabbit dashboard. You should also have a [PHP development environment](/14.tips/local-development.md) running on your local machine. Symfony has a good backward compatibility, usually not introducing break changes, this guide most likely works for older versions as well.

### Root path

If you did not choose Symfony when creating the app environment in the dashboard at first, please set the following: Go to the Dashboard and [set the root path](/) of your App's domains to 'public'.

:DashboardLink{title="Change the root path for {{app-env-slug}}" path="apps/{{app-env-slug}}/rootpath"}

### ENV vars

Symfony 6 [environments](https://symfony.com/doc/current/configuration.html#configuration-based-on-environment-variables) are controlled by the `APP_ENV` ENV var. You can even use ENV vars in the .yml configurations now. To get you started quickly, we provide you with the following ENV vars by default when you have chosen the Symfony from when creating the App:

```shell
APP_ENV=prod
APP_DEBUG=0
APP_SECRET=ClickToGenerate
DATABASE_URL=mysql://${MYSQL_USER}:${MYSQL_PASSWORD}@${MYSQL_HOST}/${MYSQL_DATABASE}
```

Within the Dashboard under your App settings you can modify the ENV vars. Modify `APP_DEBUG` or `APP_ENV` to change the behavior of your application. You can also define your own key-value-pairs and use them in your configuration files.

:DashboardLink{title="Edit ENV vars for {{app-env-slug}}" path="apps/{{app-env-slug}}/env-vars"}

## Quick start

It is assumed that you already have a Symfony project installed and running locally. This can be an existing project or a new one, see the [official download page](https://symfony.com/download) for instructions for your local Operating System. Given that fortrabbit uses Apache as a web server, consider fetching the default `.htaccess` file for Symfony, via flex (since this is from contrib repository, you will be asked to confirm the installation. Do it by pressing `y`):

```shell
composer require symfony/apache-pack
```

If your project is not under Git version control yet, follow these steps to be prepared for your first `git push`.

```shell
# 1. Initialize a local Git repo
$ git init .

# 2. Add all files
$ git add -A

# 3. Commit files for the first time
$ git commit -m 'Initial'

# 4. Add fortrabbit as a remote
$ git remote add fortrabbit {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com:{{app-env-slug}}.git

# 5. Initial push and set upstream
$ git push -u fortrabbit main
# Lots of output

# 6. From there on only
$ git push
```

**Got an error?** Please see the [access troubleshooting](/7.code-access/10.troubleshooting.md). **Did it work?** Cool! This first push can take a bit, since all the Composer packages need to be installed. When the first push is done you can visit your App URL in the browser and see the Symfony welcome screen:

* [{{app-env-slug}}.frb.io](https://{{app-env-slug}}.frb.io)

## MySQL

Until now you just deployed some code. If you want to use doctrine and MySQL it requires some more tinkering to make it yours.

### Configuration

The `DATABASE_URL` ENV var stores all DB access information already. You just need to use it in `doctrine.yaml` like so:  

```yaml
doctrine:
  dbal:
    # All in one single line (default)
    url: '%env(DATABASE_URL)%'

```

### Doctrine & symfony console

Once doctrine is configured and the changes are deployed, you may want to run migrations and maybe load fixtures. You can login via [ssh](/7.code-access/3.ssh.md) in to your app environment, or instead just fire single commands like so:

```shell
# doctrine
$ ssh {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com 'php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate'
$ ssh {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com 'php bin/console doctrine:fixtures:load'

# cache clear
$ ssh {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com 'php bin/console cache:clear'
```

You can also add this migrate command to your `composer.json` to have it run automatically every time you push changes.

```json
"scripts": {
  "post-install-cmd": [
    "php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate --no-interaction",
  ],
}
```

With that in place, any time you deploy your code, database changes will be applied immediately. If no database changes are required, nothing happens, so it is safe to run all the time. Just make sure to test your upgrades and migrations locally first.

## Logging

You can access all log files with the dashboard.

## Sending emails

You can not use [sendmail](/11.concepts/4.quirks.md#mailing) on fortrabbit but you can use the `Swiftmailer`. Symfony provides a Mailer component that makes things easy. To configure the way your emails are sent, mind setting a `MAILER_DSN` environment variable. More on this in the [official documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/mailer.html).
