---
reviewed: 2024-08-25 21:59:15
title: 404 errors
navigation.excerpt: File not found
lead: 'The 404 HTTP status code means "File Not Found". The server can be reached and is answering but there is nothing to show under this address. This article aims to help developers troubleshooting 404 errors.'
---

## 404 error behavior

- 404 errors will usually be shown on screen immediately
- 404 errors often occur during setup or after code or configuration changes
- 404 errors here are often rendered using a fortrabbit error page template

**In most cases this is not a server issue, but a problem with your code and configuration.** Please check the following common issues first:

## No code deployed

Login by SSH or SFTP to see if anything is there to be delivered.

## Wrong root path

Maybe your software is using a different root path than the one that is currently set? Check the root path settings `htdocs` is the default root path if no specific software has been chosen in the [software template](/1.platform/02.concepts/05.software-templates.md). Now, if you decide to install another software later on, you might have to set the root path accordingly. Best upload all files into `htdocs` directly, not into an extra folder that contains the files.

See your app environments root path settings and compare with what is deployed.

### .htaccess is missing

Another common cause for 404 errors is a missing `.htaccess` file. This file is hidden from your Operating System by default (as it starts with a period) but contains important rules for your application to function properly.
So if you are uploading with SFTP and have dragged the files from your Desktop (Finder) into your SFTP application (Cyberduck, Transmit, FileZilla), this file will likely be missing. You might be able to use the file explorer from your SFTP application or temporarily show hidden files in your OS to make the `.htaccess` file visible to you. Just make sure that when an `.htaccess` file is present (most likely it is), that it gets uploaded as well.

### Wrong address

You might have an error with URL. Check for typos in the address bar (URL) of your browser.

### The app or domain is not yet ready

Creating an app environment can sometimes take a few minutes. If you visit the test domain during that time, you'll get a 404 error. It's possible that this DNS response gets cached locally. The same is true for new domains.

## It could also be something on our side

It is also possible — although less likely - that this error is caused by a network, hardware or configuration issue on the side of your hosting provider — us. Please check our status page under [status.fortrabbit.com](https://status.fortrabbit.com) if there are any ongoing maintenance windows or service issues known.
