---
reviewed: 2025-12-19 15:37:46
title: Troubleshoot 500 errors
naviTitle: 500 errors
navigation.excerpt: Internal server error
figure:
  emoji: ❗
  text: Internal Server Error.
  color: rgba(220, 140, 140, 1)
  textColor: rgba(200, 10, 10, 1)
lead: The 500 HTTP status code means "Internal Server Error".
---

- 500 errors will usually be shown on screen immediately
- 500 errors often occur after code or configuration changes
- 500 errors are sometimes just printed as a "service unavailable" message, check the browser's developer tools for the response's HTTP status code to be sure this is indeed a 500 error
- 500 errors here are often rendered using a fortrabbit error page template

**In most cases this is not a server issue, but something with your code and configuration.** Good news is that they are mostly easy to debug for you:

## Check the logs

Examine the logs of your App. See [here](/1.platform/06.settings/25.logs.md). There you'll likely find where the application exited with which error.

## Review your latest changes

Since 500 errors often appear during installation, setup or code changes: Review your code and configuration changes. Compare this with your [local development environment](/4.integrations/01.local-development/01.intro.md) and see if it fails the same way. Have you ran an update recently?

### Check your .htaccess file

Our experience in support shows us that many 500 errors are caused by wrong rules in your `.htaccess` file. See our [main article on `.htaccess`](/3.dev/21.htaccess/01.intro.md) for some background. Have you made any changes to `.htaccess` lately?

## It could also be something on our side

It is also possible — although less likely - that this error is caused by a network, hardware or configuration issue on our side, your hosting provider. Please check our status page under [status.fortrabbit.com](https://status.fortrabbit.com) if there are any ongoing maintenance windows or service issues known.
