---
reviewed: 2025-11-04 14:40:42
title: ALPHA (done)
naviTitle: ALPHA (done)
lead: Welcome to the new fortrabbit platform public ALPHA program. Start hosting your first hobby projects here.
navigation.excerpt: Big bug bounty
figure:
  emoji: 🐛
  color: rgb(26, 255, 0)
  textColor: rgb(20, 100, 0)
  text: The very hungry caterpillar.
nextNav: true
---

| Phase                                                |      Status |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ----------: |
| Private alpha                                        |        Done |
| [Open beta](03.beta.md)                               |         Now |
| Public release                                       | Near future |
| [Migration start](/1.platform/01.new/8.migration.md) |       ~2026 |

## Limits during ALPHA

- Only one data center is available
- No real time live updates to dashboard
- Downscaling storage is not possible
- Metrics are not yet implemented
- Autoscaling is not available yet
- Event log is not ready yet
- Many more features not fully implemented
- Steaming logs implementation will change, [see log usage](/1.platform/06.settings/25.logs.md)

## Known issues

- Collaboration features are rough

## Timing

We hope to transition to the Beta period after a couple of months testing with the ALPHA period. ALPHA testers will automatically transition to the beta period. The start of the beta phase will be announced upfront. See the [planned phases](1.intro.md#phases).

## Terms

The service is provided "as is" during this initial phase of real-world testing. [Existing policies](https://www.fortrabbit.com/legal) are applicable where possible.

- **Free to use during the ALPHA phase**
- Prices are displayed for reference and subject to change
- Uptime: Best effort, probably good

## Fair use

The service depends on finite resources shared amongst multiple customers. By using the ALPHA platform you agree not to use services excessively or unreasonably. Invite only a reasonable number of people.

## Apply

New users are gradually onboarded by invitation. Interested? Get on the list. Please include your use case and why you are interested.

:ContentButton{property="undefined" text="Apply for ALPHA" route="https://fortrabbit.notion.site/1a8ed2d09f628029afe1dd88860c7abc?pvs=105"}
