---
reviewed: 2025-06-19 10:22:17
title: New platform intro
naviTitle: Intro
navigation.excerpt: Early access program en detail
lead: The new fortrabbit platform is in early stages. Adventurous developers are invited to test it out already.
figure:
  emoji: 🐤
  # emoji: 🦜
  color: rgb(222, 167, 1)
  textColor: rgba(108, 82, 5, 1)
  text: New platform early access program details.
  caption: Your chance to be a canary in a coal mine.
siblings: New platform
nextNav: true
---

## What to expect

A new, even more developer-friendly PHP hosting, featuring GitHub integration for automatic deployments and seamless multi-staging. Existing users may consult [changes](/1.platform/01.new/4.changes.md) to the current platform. We plan to gradually roll out the new platform during 2025. Exact timing to be defined and communicated.

## What to expect

This is our major new version of the fortrabbit hosting platform, in the making for years, rough around the edges still. We rethought and redone all aspects of the platform. Everything is new, yet familiar.

### New features available

- GitHub integration for automatic deployments
- Extended deployment options
- One stack (not two) best of both worlds
- Seamless multi-staging
- New dashboard
- New infra backend

## Phases

| Phase                               |    SLA | Pricing |         Status |
| ----------------------------------- | -----: | ------: | -------------: |
| [Private alpha](2.alpha-program.md) |   ~80% |    free |        **Now** |
| [Open beta](3.beta-program.md)      |   ~98% |    paid | Coming soonish |
| Public release                      | 99.99% |    paid |         Future |

## Private alpha

The first phase is for a closed group of with limited functionality. More details [here](2.alpha-program.md).

## Open beta

More stable, mostly feature-complete and paid.

## Public release

The public release will follow the beta phase, with all initial features fully implemented and stable.

## Migration

The current platform will be maintained for another while, both platform will run side by side. We plan to help existing clients to migrate over to the new platform, hands on. Details to be defined, but at best, we will be able to migrate most applications.
