---
reviewed: 2025-02-27 12:53:54
title: Closed alpha program
naviTitle: Closed alpha phase
navigation.excerpt: Private alpha access program en detail
lead:
figure:
  emoji: 🪲
  color: rgb(26, 255, 0)
siblings: New platform
nextNav: true
---

## What to expect

Be among the first to experience our next-generation developer-friendly PHP hosting, featuring GitHub integration for automatic deployments and seamless multi-staging. This is our major new version of the fortrabbit hosting platform, enhanced in all aspects, in the making for years, with rough edges still.

- Use at your own risk.
- **Free to use during the alpha phase**.
- Prices are displayed for reference and subject to change.
- Consult [changes](/0.new-platform/3.changes.md) to the current platform.

## Scope of testing

Go ahead and break things. We have done internal testing. But it's clear that no testing will stand actual usage.

- Find use cases we haven't thought about
- Uncover communication issues
- Create apps and environments
- Help hunting bugs
- Deploy code
- Route domains
- Change settings
- Test performance

## Feedback

Thanks a lot for your interest and support. We are eager to see if we build a product that people will like. Don't be nice to us. Be direct and honest. We plan to make personal video feedback sessions with most alpha testers.

- Product and pricing
- Feature scope and market positioning
- UI/UX/DX/design
- Communication
- General ideas

## Not available yet

During the alpha phase the following functionality will be missing:

- Collaboration features are not available
- Only one data center is available
- Metrics are not yet implemented
- Jobs (workers/corns) are not yet implemented
- Autoscaling is not available yet
- A ton of other features

## Timing

We hope to transition to the Beta period after a couple of months testing with the Alpha period. Alpha testers will automatically transition to the beta period. The start of the beta phase will be announced upfront via email. See the [planned phases](1.early-access.md#phases).

## Applying

New users are gradually onboarded by invitation. Interested? Get on the list. Please include your use case and why you are interested.

:ContactUs{block text="Apply for alpha"}
