---
reviewed: 2025-04-29 10:57:31
title: Alpha program
naviTitle: Alpha program
navigation.excerpt: Private alpha access program en detail
lead:
figure:
  emoji: 🪲
  color: rgb(26, 255, 0)
siblings: New platform
nextNav: true
---

## What to expect

This is our major new version of the fortrabbit hosting platform, in the making for years, rough around the edges still. We rethought and redone all aspects of the platform. Everything is new, yet familiar.

### New features now available

- GitHub integration for automatic deployments
- Extended deployment options
- Seamless multi-staging
- One stack (not two)
- New dashboard
- New backend

### Limits during Alpha

- Only one data center is available
- No real time live updates to dashboard
- Metrics are not yet implemented
- Jobs (workers/corns) are not ready yet
- Autoscaling is not available yet
- Event log is not ready yet
- Many more features not fully implemented
- Post deploy commands not available yet
- Steaming logs implementation will change, [see log usage](/1.platform/02.concepts/23.logs.md)

## Known issues

- To deploy via GitHub it is recommended that all connected accounts have the fortrabbit GitHub installed. There is no UI for disconnecting the GitHub app currently.
- Collaboration features are rough

## Scope of testing

Go ahead and break things. We have done internal testing. But it's clear that no testing will stand actual usage.

- Find use cases we haven't thought about
- Uncover communication issues
- Create apps and environments
- Help hunting bugs
- Deploy code
- Route domains
- Change settings
- Test performance

## Feedback

Thanks a lot for your interest and support. We are eager to see if we build a product that people will like. We plan to make personal video feedback sessions with most Alpha testers. We are curious what you think. Please report bugs or share your ideas. Is something not working out? Is something missing? Is something confusing to you?

- Product and pricing
- Feature scope and market positioning
- UI/UX/DX/design
- Communication
- General ideas
- Be direct and honest please

## Timing

We hope to transition to the Beta period after a couple of months testing with the Alpha period. Alpha testers will automatically transition to the beta period. The start of the beta phase will be announced upfront via email. See the [planned phases](1.intro.md#phases).

## Terms

The service is provided "as is" during this initial phase of real-world testing. [Existing policies](https://www.fortrabbit.com/policies) are applicable where possible.

- **Free to use during the Alpha phase**
- Prices are displayed for reference and subject to change
- Uptime: Best effort, probably good

## Fair use

The service depends on finite resources shared amongst multiple customers. By using the alpha platform you agree not to use services excessively or unreasonably. Invite only a reasonable number of people.

## Apply

New users are gradually onboarded by invitation. Interested? Get on the list. Please include your use case and why you are interested.

:ContentButton{text="Apply for Alpha" route="https://fortrabbit.notion.site/1a8ed2d09f628029afe1dd88860c7abc?pvs=105"}

<!-- :ContactUs{block text="Apply for Alpha"} -->
