---
reviewed: 2025-11-04 14:30:58
title: Beta program (soon)
naviTitle: Beta program (soon)
navigation.excerpt: Hardening and tuning
lead: Welcome to the new fortrabbit platform public BETA program. Some features are still missing, but you can already host projects here.
figure:
  emoji: 🦋
  color: rgba(22, 208, 255, 1)
nextNav: true
---

## Limits during start of Beta

- Only one data center is available (EU) for now
- No real time live updates to dashboard
- Metrics are not yet implemented
- Autoscaling is not available yet
- Event log is not ready yet
- Steaming logs implementation will change, [see log usage](/1.platform/06.settings/25.logs.md)
- Many more small features not fully implemented

We hope to tackle many of these missing features during the beta phase.

## Known issues

- Collaboration features are partly rough

## Timing

We hope to transition to the general available after a couple of months beta testing. Beta testers will automatically transition to the final version.

## Stability

We promise to do everything we can to keep your apps up and running. We offer a conservative 98% uptime SLA during BETA, aiming for more. We have extensive monitoring in place and act as quickly as possible when something looks off.

- [fortrabbit.betteruptime.com](https://fortrabbit.betteruptime.com/) - status monitor including automated tests, covering Alpha period as well

The platform is still under active development. We usually release once a week. New features are only deployed after automated checks and human testing.

- edge - local development
- staging - testing set
- production - the is where the BETA runs on

During the [Alpha period](/1.platform/01.new/2.alpha-program.md) we have been able to catch many teething problems. For the BETA, we are looking forward to gather more experience hosting larger real world applications and run into all kind of edge cases to harden the platform.

## Terms

General terms are applicable.

## Pricing

Expect to pay for what is shown. We plan to introduce final pricing and billing during beta. After all we want to see if users would pay for that.
