---
reviewed: 2025-11-26 08:31:32
title: BETA (now)
naviTitle: BETA (now)
navigation.excerpt: Hardening and tuning
lead: Welcome to the public BETA of the new fortrabbit platform. We are confident it is  ready for your real-world applications already.
links:
  - title: BETA announcement
    route: /new-platform-beta
    property: blog
figure:
  emoji: 🦋
  color: rgba(22, 208, 255, 1)
nextNav: true
---

| Phase                                                |      Status |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ----------: |
| Private alpha                                        |        Done |
| Open beta ← you are here                             |     **Now** |
| Public release                                       | Near future |
| [Migration start](/1.platform/01.new/6.migration.md) |       ~2026 |

## Our goals of the BETA

- Gather more real-world feedback
- Harden the platform
- Catch some edge cases
- Complete missing features

## Benefits for you

- Experience a new features first
- Try new features landing soon
- Attractive pricing
- Expect good stability
- Enjoy the new design
- Enjoy the new docs

## Current limits

At the time of this writing the following features are still missing but planned to be added soon:

- Only one data center (EU) is available for now
- No real-time live updates in the dashboard yet
- Metrics are not yet implemented
- Autoscaling is not available yet
- Event log is not ready yet
- Streaming logs implementation will change, [see log usage](/1.platform/06.settings/25.logs.md)
- Collaboration features are still a bit rough
- Many smaller features are not fully implemented
- No SEPA direct debit payments, only credit card
- Short downtimes may happen from time to time (see below)

### Short hiccups

We are experimenting with shorter-lived instances to run the web frontends. These can be interrupted at any time by our infrastructure provider with some notification in advance. But, sometimes this notification is still too late to restart all the applications somewhere else without any disruption. We are still in the process of trying to improve this situation and lower the downtimes as much as possible. Please bear with us for now. So for now, small hiccups of a couple of minutes are actually expected.

Feedback on this specifically very welcome. How important is this uptime for you at what level? Maybe acceptable for staging environments and XS projects?

### Do

- **Deploy production websites**
- Find use cases we haven't thought about
- Uncover communication issues
- Create apps and environments
- Help hunting bugs
- Deploy code
- Route domains
- Change settings
- Test performance

### Feedback scope

- Product and pricing
- Feature scope and market positioning
- UI/UX/DX/design
- Communication
- General ideas
- Be direct and honest please

## Timing

We plan to transition to general availability after a few months of BETA testing. At the time of this writing, something between 3 and 9 months. There are a couple of features that we regard as important for full public release. We also plan to implement some customer feedback during BETA.

During the BETA time period - and beyond - the old platform will continue to run normally. [New and old platform will run side by side](/1.platform/01.new/4.new-and-old.md). There is no rush for existing customers. There will be extensive help and communication for the migration.

## Stability

We promise to do everything we can to keep your apps up and running. We offer a conservative **98% uptime SLA during BETA**, aiming for more. Monitoring is in place and we act as quickly as possible when something looks off.

- [fortrabbit.betteruptime.com](https://fortrabbit.betteruptime.com/) - status monitor including automated tests, covering the Alpha period as well

The platform is still under active development. We usually release once a week. New features are only deployed after automated checks and human testing.

- edge - local development
- staging - test environment
- production - where the BETA runs

During the ALPHA we were able to catch many early issues. For the BETA period now, we want to gain more experience with larger real-world applications and run into all kinds of edge cases to harden the platform further.

## Terms

The [legal section](https://www.fortrabbit.com/legal) has been updated. The [new terms](https://www.fortrabbit.com/legal/terms) are applicable for new and old customers for the new and the old platform. There are only minor adjustments.

## Pricing

The BETA is paid, but prices may change. We plan to introduce final pricing and billing during the BETA. Feedback on this very much welcome!
