---
reviewed: 2026-02-18 15:28:35
title: Price comparison (old/new)
naviTitle: Price comparison
navigation.excerpt: Prices old / new - side by side
figure:
  emoji: ⚖️
  text: Prices new and old compared.
  # color: rgb(90, 100, 90)
  color: rgb(65, 63, 62)
  textColor: rgb(230, 240, 230)
lead: The new platform is more affordable than the old platform for most real live use cases. This page helps understanding pricing differences and choosing matching plans.
---

## Product changes affecting pricing

The following structural changes in the new platform directly affect pricing:

### Component based pricing model

The new platform adopts a component-based pricing structure, similar to the former Pro Stack. This allows for individual scaling of resources, enabling you to pay only for what you need.

| Platform               | Model      |
| ---------------------- | ---------- |
| Old platform Uni Stack | 3 plans    |
| Old platform Pro Stack | Components |
| New platform           | Components |

This allows better matching pricing for:

- Standard CMS systems with a LAMP stack
- Sophisticated web applications with jobs and key-value store
- Static file systems

### No more Company Plans

The old platform had [company plans](https://www.fortrabbit.com/company-plans). It was built with good intentions, aiming to offer lower rates for solo developers while charging larger teams more. This model often caused confusion. The new platform removes Company Plans. All [collaboration features](/1.platform/20.collaboration/1.intro.md) are now included at no extra cost.

### New backup options

The [backup system](/1.platform/09.components/05.backups.md) has been improved. Key features include one-click restores and ad-hoc backups on click. [Retention policies](/1.platform/25.backups/retention.md) (WIP) are being introduced to optimize storage while ensuring access to both recent and historical backups. While the new backup pricing might appear higher when comparing solely by quantity, the enhanced functionality provides greater value and security.

### Autoscaling

The new platform supports autoscaling for MySQL, storage, and traffic, aligning with our "start small, scale later" philosophy. This eliminates the need to over-provision resources or upgrade entire packages when a single resource limit is reached, as was the case with the Uni Stack. Cost caps can still be applied, which is useful for budgeting and client communication.

### New XS options

The new XS plans options are specifically designed to allow creating small projects. This can be staging environments, weekend hacks, mini client projects. The smallest possible combination starts at $/€2.50.

### Traffic is a component

On the old platform, 50 GB of traffic was included. Exceeding this limit incurred a charge of $/€1 per additional 5 GB. This overage charge was often unexpected. On the new platform, traffic is treated as a distinct component (with tiers) that can be either capped or set to auto-scale.

### New architecture

The new infrastructure layer is even more optimized for speedy PHP web delivery. While we don't have benchmarks to share, we are confident that the new platform allows to do more with less.

## Universal Stack mapping

The following new platform plan combinations roughly match former Uni App plans:

### Light plan equivalent

formerly priced at €5.0

| Component  |      Spec |    Price |
| ---------- | --------: | -------: |
| PHP XS     |   128 MiB |       €1 |
| MySQL SM   |   256 MiB |       €2 |
| Storage SM |     1 GiB |       €1 |
| Traffic XS |    32 GiB |     €0.5 |
| Backups XS |         1 |     €0.5 |
|            | **total** | **€5.0** |

Note that you can start with smaller plans for MySQL and storage which makes the entry price more affordable.

### Standard plan equivalent

formerly priced at €15.0

| Component  |      Spec |     Price |
| ---------- | --------: | --------: |
| PHP SM     |   256 MiB |        €2 |
| MySQL MD   |   512 MiB |        €4 |
| Storage LG |     4 GiB |        €1 |
| Traffic XS |    32 GiB |      €0.5 |
| Backups SM |         3 |        €4 |
| Jobs XS    |         1 |        €1 |
|            | **total** | **€15.5** |

Note that there are different setups possible, than with the old platform. Likely you don't need the exact equivalent, but something similar which is more affordable.

### Plus plan equivalent

formerly priced at €30.0

| Component  |      Spec |     Price |
| ---------- | --------: | --------: |
| PHP MD     |   512 MiB |        €4 |
| MySQL LG   |     1 GiB |        €8 |
| Storage XL |     8 GiB |        €8 |
| Traffic XS |    32 GiB |      €0.5 |
| Backups MD |         6 |        €8 |
| Jobs SM    |         2 |        €3 |
|            | **total** | **€31.5** |

As mentioned before, likely a different combination of plans will suit your needs as well.

## Further details

- [Pricing new platform](https://www.fortrabbit.com/pricing)
- [Specs Uni Stack (old platform)](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs)
- [Specs Pro Stack (old platform)](https://www.fortrabbit.com//specs-pro)
- <https://web.archive.org/web/20250513173439/https://www.fortrabbit.com/pricing>
