---
reviewed: 2025-09-10 08:26:46
title: GitHub
naviTitle: GitHub
navigation.excerpt: Code collaboration and deployment.
figure:
  emoji: 🐙
  text: Connect your GitHub repositories.
  color: rgba(36, 41, 47, 1)
  textColor: rgba(250, 120, 140, 1)
lead: Learn how the most popular Git-as-a-service provider is integrated with fortrabbit.
sidebar: github
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'git-hub, addon, add-on, integrations, integration, gitlab, bitbucket, coding, API, CI, cloud, vcs, add-on, version control'
---

## About GitHub

You hopefully already know that [GitHub](https://github.com) (by Microsoft) is the most popular choice for versionized code hosting and collaborating. It is free to use to some extend. Similar alternatives are Bitbucket and GitLab.

**GitHub is not Git**: GitHub is so popular that beginners sometimes confuse GitHub with Git. Git is the version control system; GitHub provides Git hosting plus collaboration features. If you're new to Git, check out our [getting started with Git article](/3.dev/15.learn/git-intro.md).

## Built-in GitHub integration

fortrabbit services tightly integrate with GitHub. Install the [fortrabbit GitHub app](/1.platform/05.deployment/02.github-app.md) to connect GitHub repos with apps hosted on fortrabbit. See the [deployment intro](/1.platform/05.deployment/01.intro.md) to get started.

The built-in GitHub integration is easiest way to enable automatic deployments on `git push`. It includes automatic stack detection and [software templates](/1.platform/03.concepts/05.software-templates.md) to auto-configure [build commands](/1.platform/05.deployment/03.build-commands.md), [post-deploy commands](/1.platform/05.deployment/04.post-deploy-commands.md) and other deployment related settings.

## Using GitHub Actions

GitHub is also offering [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions), an integrated continuous integration solution. Combining GitHub Actions with fortrabbit can help to integrate even more advanced CI/CD workflows. fortrabbit does not offer predefined GitHub Actions (currently), [this blog post](https://blog.fortrabbit.com/how-to-use-github-actions) contains two templates to get started.

To use GitHub Actions, disable the built-in integration. Use [rsync](/3.dev/20.how-to/rsync.md) or some other [SSH based workflow](/1.platform/04.code-access/01.intro.md) to deploy code to the web space.

Create an SSH key on GitHub and add this as a [deploy key](/3.dev/15.learn/01.ssh-keys.md#deploy-keys) to fortrabbit so that GitHub can has access on the desired environments.
