---
reviewed: 2025-03-14 14:27:48
title: Code access troubleshooting
naviTitle: Troubleshooting
navigation.excerpt: Debugging connection issues
lead: Can't login by SSH or by SFTP or to your database? Most connectivity issues are related to local configuration. Test with SSH first. Here is what to look for.
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'ssh key, git, git-deployment, ssh, username, password, access, authentication'
---

## Are your SSH keys correctly set up?

- Have you setup SSH keys and uploaded the public part to fortrabbit?
- Have you been able to [access code](/3.dev/7.code-access/1.intro.md) before?
- Is the same key you are using now here working elsewhere?

See our [SSH key setup](/3.dev/15.learn/1.ssh-keys.md) article if you are unsure about your SSH keys.

## Use verbose mode to see what's going on

Add the `-v` (verbose) flag to your login command. The output from this command is useful for troubleshooting issues.

```shell
$ ssh {{app-env-id}}@ssh.{{region}}.frbit.app -v

# OpenSSH_8.4p1, OpenSSL 1.1.1i  8 Dec 2022
# debug1: Reading configuration data /home/user/.ssh/config
# debug1: /home/user/.ssh/config line 6: Applying options for *
# debug1: Reading configuration data /etc/ssh/ssh_config
# debug1: Authenticator provider $SSH_SK_PROVIDER did not resolve; disabling
# … more lines here
```

## Check your local SSH configuration

Open the files `~/.ssh/config` and `~/.ssh/known_hosts` and see if there is anything unusual. Delete all entries related to fortrabbit services to reset your local configuration.

## Access error for recently created app environment

If an app environment was recently created, please wait about 5 minutes for it to become ready. Trying to connect before it is ready produces an error. If more than 10 minutes have passed and you still get a similar error (despite successful authentication), then please contact us.

## Access error with recently created SSH key

After importing a key in the dashboard, please allow up to 5 minutes for it to be activated.

## You are asked for a password

If you face a password prompt it can mean a few things:

- Your SSH key is protected by a local passphrase
- The keys in standard location `~/.ssh/` have been rejected
- Other issues on your side, check the verbose output, reset config

## If it takes forever

If you can't establish a connection at all, or if it takes "forever" to connect and nothing actually happens a few things may be the cause.

- a firewall on your end blocking outgoing connections (not very likely)
- your IP has been quarantined by our service due to too many failed attempts (possible)

Try to figure out if you can connect to external services on port 22 from your network. Try disabling your (corporate) VPN connection, if any.

## Connecting from within a container

When your local development environment is containerized with Docker, DDEV or alike and you want to deploy from within the container, make sure to have the SSH keys installed there as well.

## If it worked before and suddenly stops working

If you have deployed using SSH keys before and now it doesn't work any more:

1. Check if you have changed something, compare your local keys with the remote one
2. See if any change in collaboration happened, do you have access on the app still?

## Host authenticity warning

The first time you are connecting to fortrabbit service via SSH, there will be a warning about connection to a new SSH server. Just type yes, which will record the fingerprint of the fortrabbit deploy service into the `~/.ssh/known_hosts` file. Say yes here:

```shell
The authenticity of host '…' can't be established
RSA key fingerprint is …
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)?
```

If this fingerprint changes in the future, then you will se an error about that and will have to take further action depending on the situation.
