---
title: Changes
naviTitle: Changes
navigation.excerpt: New features and deprecations
lead: Orientation for clients who are used to the legacy platform.
---

## One stack

The legacy platform features two different stacks: Universal Apps (with persistent storage and direct SSH access) and the Professional Apps (with ephemeral storage and horizontal scaling). For the new platform attributes from both previous stacks are combined into one. The new platform is more Uni-App-like with persistent storage and direct SSH/SFTP access. [Workers](/9.components/7.workers.md) are available too. The pricing structure, as with the former Pro Stack is based on [components](/9.components/index.md). There is no horizontal scaling any more, but higher vertical scaling to cover similar workloads.

## App environments

To better support production-staging workflows the app is now a grouping object. Dedicated hosting stacks are mapped with app environments. An [app](/10.objects/1.app.md) is connected to the (external) Git repo, each individually scalable [app environment](/10.objects/2.app-environment.md) represents a branch. Take as many app environments per app as you want, minium is one.

## Deployment

### Git deployment

fortrabbit no longer provides Git repo hosting. Connect your GitHub (other providers planned) with the fortrabbit GitHub app to enable `git push` deployment instead. See the [GitHub integration](/6.deployment/2.github-app.md).

Node.js is available during the deployment pipeline to create Javascript bundles. See the new [build commands article](/6.deployment/3.build-commands.md).

### SSH keys only

Sorry, username/password is no longer an option to connect via SSH or SFTP. Please use more secure and more convenient SSH key authentication.

## Collaboration

Collaboration workflows have been improved. The concepts are similar, yet more flexible. We are doubling down on personal access. Collaboration is about humans getting together. Each person involved has their own account.

Instead of a hierarchical structure with the Company as the root element, there are decoupled but related objects now.

This enables more scenarios and better mapping of real world business relations. With the old platform, it was required that each developer from a team needs to join the Company of the business owner to get access on their Apps. Re-inviting colleagues was not only a repetitive task but also hiding important attribution. Now instead a team of developer can be connected to a client, while keeping the original context. It's clear who is whom.

### Teams

Companies are no longer required. Use teams for groups of developers. See the [team article](/10.objects/4.team.md).

### Payment methods

A Billing Contact is now called payment method. It holds the billing credentials and can be managed and accessed by clients, individual developer or teams. A payment method pays for the apps.

## Pricing
