---
title: Frequently asked questions
naviTitle: Frequently asked
navigation.excerpt: Setting support level expectations
figure:
  emoji: 🤔
  text: Wait. What about …
siblings: Support
---

## When will I get an answer?

We will answer as soon as possible. The median response time has been around 50 minutes, historically. The median time to close was around 4 hours. That means that, sometimes we chat, sometimes answers are delayed.

## Can you help migrate my websites?

We don't provide assisted migration from third party service, because fortrabbit is a self-service aimed at developers. Unless you have the necessary skills to deploy and maintain a website, you will need a developer to handle your website on fortrabbit. However, we are always happy to help with specific technical questions on the matter. There is also a detailed
:PageLink{text="migration guide" prefix="docsUrl" href="/tips/migrate-to-fortrabbit"} which you may find useful.Doing the migration on your own helps you understanding how deployment works here.

## What if I have an urgent question?

The scope of our support covers primarily helping with deployment of the code and configuring your Apps. Mind that we are also monitoring our systems for general issues. The few urgent cases we do see are usually connected to human errors when clients accidentally mess up or delete things. We have priority criteria policies, meaning that urgent and important cases will be answered first.

## What if we will have a traffic spike event?

We might be able to prepare that with you. Please let us know a few days in advance.

## What if I miss the answer?

That usually doesn't happen. You will get the answer by e-mail, when you are away. You can also answer on that e-mail or jump back into chat at any time. It works really well.

## Do you offer premium support?

No.

## Can I have telephone support?

Sorry, no telephone support hotline here. fortrabbit limits the general support to online communication. It allows us to keep the pricing down, while maintaining a feature-rich application. It also helps us gathering details and other information for effective troubleshooting. A lot of our support involves pointing to relevant help articles, we feel this is easier to do in written form. The support cases are often technical in nature, requiring escalation to 2nd level support. We rely on the conversation prior to escalation to provide the basis for further troubleshooting and support.

## Do you offer 24/7 support?

No, please see above to understand why.

## Where can I send feedback?

We like to hear your ideas! You can submit feedback via the same support bubble on our website.

## Can I run that obscure software?

Perhaps not, please see our .

## How many websites in one app?

One App shall host one website. Each App comes with a dedicated App URL, dedicated metrics, a single Git repo and collaboration features. The tiny tinkering plans are designed for small websites.

## What about data center locations?

You can currently choose a data center location for each your apps. An approximate location will be shown.

## Can I cancel at any time?

Yes, you can quit your account completely with immediate effect at any time directly from the dashboard.

## Can I scale up and down at any time?

Yes. Scale[components up and down at any time. Changes are not instantaneous and depending or currently available resources it may take a few minutes to provision the necessary hardware resources before the change becomes effective.

## How do you bill?

At the end of each month we send an invoice the usage of that month. The billing period is daily. So you'll be charged just for the days you have actually used a certain App or Component. See our :PageLink{text="billing article" prefix="docsUrl" href="/billing/pro-rated-billing"} for more.

## What about taxes?

The fortrabbit service is targeted at professional B2B clients. Prices are net and subject to statutory VAT and may be added. Please also see our :PageLink{text="VAT help page" prefix="docsUrl" href="/billing/vat"}.
