---
title: Technical support
naviTitle: Technical help
navigation.excerpt: Where and how to ask technical questions
# figure:
#   emoji: 🧘🏿‍♀️
#   text: Zen support guide
#   color: rgb(149, 113, 68)
figure:
  emoji: 💬
  text: Stuck somewhere? We are here to help.
  color: rgb(217, 152, 188)
siblings: Support
links:
  - title: Support policies
    route: /legal/support-policies
    property: www
---

:ContactUs{text="Open support chat" block}

## Zen support path

Please be advised to consider the points below for the best support experience and the quickest solution.

### Be on point

Avoid trying to "negotiate a connection" with a support agent. We are not always ready to participate in a chat session. No need to ask how we are doing. We can not guarantee a prompt answer at all times. Describe your situation in detail and ask your questions clearly. We always answer.

<!-- - _"Hello, You there?"_
- _"Hello, how are you doing?"_
- _"Hi, good day."_
- _"Hi, I have a question."_ - then no question asked
- _"Hi, I just want to ask some questions about TOPIC"_ - no question asked
- _"Hey, I'm wondering if you could answer a few questions about using TECH on your platform"_ - no question asked -->

### Read, research, ask

Consider the following pattern when you have a question:

1. Search and read our [documentation here](/)
2. Search the error logs, check your AI, Google and Stack Overflow
3. Haven't found answer? Ask us and provide all the details

This is the most time-efficient way to handle being stuck, and it's the most respectful approach of other people's time.

### Be specific

Ambiguity is the kryptonite of support. Give us timestamps, full error messages, error logs, screenshots, URLs, and any other specific information that can help to identify a problem.

- Bad: _"Urgent. Something is wrong. Fix this ASAP!"_
- Better: _"At 17:00 UTC today, my app foobar shows an error: ECONNREFUSED after several seconds when I visit the URL <http://foobar.com/contact-us> and click the 'submit' button"_

Providing sufficient details upfront helps us respond more efficiently and effectively. We greatly appreciate when clients take the time to outline their problems thoroughly, as it reduces the need for back-and-forth communication. As a small team, minimizing chat sessions helps us manage our time better and serve you more promptly.

### Use technical terms

Use technical language to describe your problem if you are able to do so. Put some effort into explaining exactly what's going on.

- Bad: _"My site is stuck."_
- Better: _"When I visit mydomain.com, the browser shows an error: "Not secure" in the URL bar"_

### Provide context

We don't know your website or web application. Please provide us with the context required to understand your question. Describe your goals.

### One support ticket per issue

Please don't try to speed up things by asking the same questions multiple times. We observe some times that in an urgent situation several people from the same company will initiate separate support cases. This is counter productive from our perspective. Opening multiple tickets on the same issue will only impede our ability to provide timely support.

### One issue per ticket

Stick to one problem at a time, this helps reduce the noise level and confusion factor if the problem has to be handed over to another support agent. If you have a different (new) problem than the one you set out to solve initially with a support case, then please start a new conversation. Each conversation should have one topic. This helps sharpen the focus of each conversation and makes it easier to hand over a case to 2nd level support.

### Include replication steps

To solve a problem we often need to recreate the scenario. Please provide us with the exact steps to replicate the issue. If we can't see it, we can't debug it.

### Ask for clarification

We are often busy and usually receive a lot of questions about the same or similar topics. Sometimes we asses the situation incorrectly and provide inaccurate suggestions. If you think this has happened, or if the answer does not make sense to you, ask for explanations. Don't be afraid to correct us, or provide further details if we don't seem to understand the issue.

### Ask in English

All of our support agents can speak and reply in English.

### Be kind

Try to tame your temper even in stressful situations.
