---
title: Website down
naviTitle: Website down
navigation.excerpt: When your website hosted here isn't loading
lead: Your website hosted here is offline right now? Let's waste no time and get it solved together in a professional manner.
---

:ContactUs{text="Open support chat" block}

## Support tips

Please be advised to consider the points below for the best support experience and the quickest solution.

### Keep a cool head

This is an urgent situation. Please try to stay calm and focus on the facts. Emotions and allegations won't help fixing the issue.

### What kind of error do you see?

There are many reasons why websites go down. Often the error you are seeing in the browser gives you a good hint. There are help pages to get you started investigating these specific errors:

- [500 error](/3.dev/http-errors/2.504.md)
- [504 error](/3.dev/http-errors/2.504.md)
- [503 error](/3.dev/http-errors/3.503.md)
- [403 error](/3.dev/http-errors/4.403.md)
- [404 error](/3.dev/http-errors/5.404.md)

### It's likely something on your side

Most downtime we see is caused by "client coding mistakes" - usually by not making proper use of the available resources. In many cases we can help you to solve the issue. Many of such errors can be resolved by analyzing logs files and metrics. We are happy to discuss and research such problems together with our clients.

### It's maybe something on our side

See our status page [status.fortrabbit.com](https://status.fortrabbit.com) if is already known. If not, don't hesitate to contact us. Provide enough details:

### What's the context?

Make sure to provide the exact app and environment names. Is the happening to just one app hosted here or to multiple or all?

### Make sure to have your developer on board

We advice to get your developer in contact with us.

### Have you made any recent changes?

Did you maybe recently pushed code? Or did some editor changed some setting on the App? Or was there any other change done, prior the downtime? Maybe someone uploaded a lot of images or performed other actions interacting with the website? Anything that can be of interest.

### Since when do you see the error?

Report the exact time when the issue started to happen.

### What else do we need to to know?

Is the error happening constantly, or is it more on/off? Have you got similar issues before?
