---
reviewed: 2023-08-26 13:44:18
title: Statamic setup
naviTitle: Setup
navigation.excerpt: Get to know options on fortrabbit
lead: Learn here how to install Statamic on fortrabbit.
sidebar: statamic
nextNav: true
siblings: Craft CMS guides
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'statamic, starterkit, markdown, laravel, flatfile, headless'
---

<!-- TODO: Review, old stuff! -->

## Get ready

Have a [local development environment](/15.tips/local-development.md) with PHP and a web server ready. Also have an app at fortrabbit ready.

## Install Statamic locally

Before you deploy anything to fortrabbit, get your Statamic project running on your local computer. Please see the [official Statamic install guide](https://statamic.dev/installing/local) for up-to-date instructions. It would be good to already have your first admin user set up.

## Setup

Next up, let's get Statamic ready, so that the same installation can run locally and on the fortrabbit App.

### Set environment variables

Statamic comes with a predefined `.env` file. It includes what you'll need to run Statamic locally. Bear in mind that the `.env` is ignored in Git.

If you have not chosen Statamic as the [software preset](/11.concepts/software-presets.md) for the app, you may need to set some environment variables. Go to your app environment in the dashboard, and under settings find "ENV vars". You will be presented with a textarea to put in your "Custom ENV vars". Have the same APP_KEY locally and on the App (copy from your local installation).

```shell
APP_KEY=(copy what you have locally)
APP_ENV=production
APP_DEBUG=false
APP_URL=https://{{app-env-slug}}.frb.io
```

:DashboardLink{title="Set the ENV vars" path="/environments/{{app-env-slug}}/settings/root-path" text="dashboard.com/environments/takas-233/settings/root-path"}

Please also see our [environment variables article](/11.concepts/env-vars.md) to learn more about that kind of configuration and our implementation.

### Set the root path

This setting again is only required if you have not chosen Statamic with the software preset. Statamic is a Laravel application. So the root path needs to be set to `public`. This should be set already if you have chosen the Laravel software preset.

:DashboardLink{title="Set the root path" path="/environemnts/{{app-env-slug}}/settings/root-path" text="dashboard.com/environments/{{app-env-slug}}/settings/root-path"}

## Deployment workflow introduction

There are two "main" ways to deploy code here on fortrabbit: [Git](/6.deployment/1.intro.md) and [SFTP](/7.code-access/4.sftp.md). The general rule of thumb is, that content driven legacy applications, like [WordPress](/5.guides/5.wordpress.md), are better uploaded in classical manner with SFTP. Modern PHP web frameworks that are based on [Composer](/15.tips/composer.md) are mostly deployed with Git.

Now, Statamic is a bit in between and is - like [Grav](/5.guides/7.grav.md) and [Kirby](/5.guides/6.kirby.md) - file based. So there is usually no database, the actual contents are text files written on the file system.

Files you can access via SFTP or SSH are not the exact ones that are in Git. The Git repo is a separate thing. This means that deploying with [Git is a one way street](/6.deployment/1.intro.md#git-works-only-one-way) that only goes up. In other words: You can NOT `git pull` any changes you have made on the app environment's file system. In an ideal world, code and content are maybe separated. With a file based CMS this is all together.

## Deployment options

Here are three ways to get your code up (and down):

### 1 - SFTP upload

There is not much to say on that topic. Just make sure to upload all contents of your local Statamic folder, including the hidden `.htaccess` file into the `htdocs` folder within your app environment. Consider using [rsync](/15.tips/rsync.md) to sync all contents all up and down.

### 2 - Git + rsync workflow (recommended)

Manage template code with Git and content with rsync. Instructions [over here](/4.statamic/2.deployment.md).

### 3 - Git experimental workflow

Feeling adventurous? Use Git on the App to be able to push/pull contents. Instructions [over here](/4.statamic/4.git-experimental.md).
